True-raise Questlons 8 the Chenistry and Phychaphyalology.of.0or and Flevor 1. TF Sone nodern workers suggest that nocurnte mensurenent of vibrational frequency (in the far Intrared, for exanple) of an unknown odorant will pernit prediction of its quallty and intensity. T F No elenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone hes any odor; Instead they react with the mucosa forning new products whlch are smelled; but T F Sone odorants have sterle or vibrational propertles which force the concluston that they are odorless whon they are not. 11, T F Present evidence strongly suggests thet different parts of the olfactory receptor ares, Ilke tho retina In the eye, are quailty-specific. TF Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor TF No one yet has a fire clue as to the critical relation between the molecule and the receptor which permits an odor perception. TF The greater the secretion rate of mucous or sellve, the higher their pH, and both phi and temperature influence the quallty of sensation in the 111. TF The ideal Instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sane quantitative range ns does an animat or human subject. TF Such an Ideat detector has not been developed. Iv. : Ihman observers with head In fixed position can by virtue of the two Indopendent nostrils easily discern stereo suoll effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier a odorant Is et the right or left hand, much os one uses nis two cara in locating the source of a sound. 11 For certaln musk-liko compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger a hunon olfactory response. 'A TF Adeptation to one olfactory qunlity does not significently reduce sensitivity to any other dissimi lar quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all sinllor quelities. TF By enploying a similerities aethod of compering qualitles, one con now obtain identity and degroes of difference without rocourse to trouble- vi. TF Hunger lowers thresholds slightly to some food quallties but not for TF It is now possible to identify the intensity and quality of a certain given stimull sinply by expert examination of the electrophysiological record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons. 1 F Electrical stimulation of taste in nan yields onty reports of "sour" and e "metallic" or "alkalind" quality. T d Direct electrical stimuletlon of the olfactory senso has nover yet beon successfully accompilshed. VII. TF Although total anosela is rare In humons and ageusia even rarer, there is evidence that In analogy to color vision deflciences, sone people are Insensitive to (only certain) qualities while having normal sensitivity to others. - F Topical anesthetics applled to the tongue show that alfferent quelities T F Certaln endocrine diseese entitles nake It possible for sone people quite sensitively to "smell" such "odorless" substances es sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to normal by manipulation of endocrine levels. TF Promenopausal wonon at the time of ovulation find certain odors extremely disegreeable whlle at other tines In the menstrual cycle these same odors
sone elements possess taste.
surface In order to be smelled,
chemical senses.
sone words. others.
5
of taste disappear at different rates,
they will judge quite pleasant,
OVI" A -
