WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRIBUNE D. 25,605 a S. 49,326 WACO METROPOLITAN AREA MAR 6 636!
F.C Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard-- Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission from going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarctte So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it dnes not scem right or logical that onc medium of advertising be forbidden the producer while displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expectod to review the FCC proposal and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires Jung 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC said 11 is proposing to refuse Jicenses to broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising because of evidence that smoking is injurious to health ànd the FCC has an obligation 10 protect the public interest. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals to do as they please so long as ihcy doa't harm ancther. Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if you don't mention something, maybe it wou't Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democret, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Con- merce Commitice, said in reference to the proposed FCC rule that the ngency had overstepped the bounds of its authority, He said he doubts that FCC has any right 0) tell an advertiser what he could not say in his advertisements. Rogers said Congress will take a cluse Icok at the whole question of regulutions on television and radio advortising" content, not ouly as o) the Federal Communications Commission but in regard to Federal Trade Commission practices as The stakes involved extend beyond the business of broadcasling. They of to the heart of whe:her government burcaus should he allowed to o3 beyond
advertising. a
billboards and counter
a newspapers, magazines,
Hazardous to Your Health."
hurt you and will disappear.
well. 7
tho limits of due proccss and the law,
