BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
a
Area stores
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For the Delly Camera * kids. ka,
referring to the Increased enforce- penaly Tur selling tobacco 001 ml tried os Anq une cigarelles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky enough. OF nesses this week during a crack. getcaught were issueda summons down on selling cigarettes to ml. to appoar 51 court. The. maximum The sting. conducted on the eve -noris H $200 fine. of- the American Cancer Soclety's The Suna involved two tcams. Great American Smokeout, was -UI Each included u uniformed 'omcer. tended to educate clerks that it's -I! a plain çlothes ancer. and two legal a sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School sirts, who Police targeted Ras stations, con: giris' parenis signed a waiver al- venience, drug, grocery and "SIP lowing themto Take partin thc.op: a Taw has never been enforced, pies The juvenlles wore told not to Jopinog Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk 10 sell "We're letting the stores know had to show identification.
"count stores. Until recently, the eration. thie le going to happen," ahc sald,
the cigareites. and, If asked, they (Sce BOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry 28uh SL, one of the girts asked when she WAS isstied A Sum. the cashler for a pack of Mart mons, ous naid ahg was > stur boro Lights. Offcer Rob Hauke- JUOP and couldn't atord aut ness, S plain clothes, poons UL court costs. Halikeness poù "01 ifna-hehind her to witness thç consore hér, saying she coulu: A placard near the cash regis. the Distriet Attorney to do cam, - ter read, P.Iu ID my own mother. munity acrvice instrad of paying clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clorks, not thc store OWT: cation. The buyer produced lier ert or manugers, have to pay the.: she WAS only "41 Tho clerk look- "We don'l du it 03 punish.. cd at the license, act it down on stores or clerks," she said. "Al-: the counter, and sold her the though, when you pee clerks cry: Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted 1.91 stepped dn and identified him storos and clerks a all bur a celf as a police officer. Manka recelved summonses. came In and wrote the clerk a Thie wock's operation was "When I bee chem ask for an year. The first sting, conducted. E I think they're going to 2 ur September, targeted 16 stores: fuse the cale," Haukeness sald. und 15 clerks received sum:
(From Page (OT
The clerk at Colony Market,
transaction.
Atquepad work out a dealwith
No 'at No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, - driver's license, which showed court costs.
: -
cigarettes. summons.
ing, you might think otherwise." secund tobacco sale stine - the:
"But they never do."
monses.
