page 43

HENINONI
Philadelphia, Pa.
March 27, 1964

INQUIRER
Philadelphia, Pa.
March 26, 1964

2 Cancer Types Rare
In Nuns, Study Shows
PALM BEACH SHORES, Fla., March 26.-An extensive
Duns has shed light on some stubborn problems of medical
research, it was reported LIVE 6 YEARS LONGER
The survey, conducted with that the average age of death
the "generous collaboration" of was 775 years, about six years
church authorities, has enlisted, higher than for American wom-
the cooperation of more thanl en in general.
116,000 nuns in 262 religious Dr. Nix said the nuns "get
Some preliminary results numbers as other women, but
based on pilot studies and a por. they seem to get them 10 years
tion of the main survey in 1963 later than the average woman."
-vere revealed here at the There was A strikingly low
sixth annual American Cancer incidence of cervical cancer,
Society Seience Writers' Semi- which Dr. Nix attributed- to
"This is an unusual type of en, although it can now be
activity for the u'sunu said detected early enough with the
Dr. James T: Nix, of New so-called "Pap smear" test so
Orleans, director of the study. that it can be treated effective-
they. feit the knowledge is -mi Among the nuns, Dr.: Nix found
portant, and that it was their only one case-in a 93-year-old
The survey's primary target a fairly high incidence hand, of breast was
lationships of health to celibacy, "The nuns realized that a
abstinence from alcobol or larger series would be of great-
smoking and other environmen- er statistical value and have
One of the striking findings of death information for the cal-
the pilot study was that squa- endar year 1964," Dr. Nix said.
mous cell lung cancer-the type As the new data
chiefly caused kq smoking. are being processed pour la they
which makes up the great computers of the Tulane the Univer- big
majority of all lung eancer sity Biomedical Computing Cen-
cases today-occurs only rarely ter. They promise valuable in-
Dr. Nix added that the É habits of living on health.

Higher Death Rate

Males Is

By GARY BROOTEN
Of The Inquirer Staff
among
Roman
America's
Catholic
The most striking finding:
heart attacks in about the same

Among

survey of causes of death
Thursday.

Attributed

to

Heavy Smoking
PALM BEACH Inquirer Staff 1 significant fact in itself.
March 25.-A leading SHORES. Fla.. But by comparing the 69,000 ex-
statistician said Wednesday health that cess smokers" deaths with the
much of the long accepted dif. 155.700 excess death. among all
ference in death rates between men, the statisticians came to
sexes may be attributable to the conclusion that 14.8 percent
differences in eigaret smoking. of these excess deaths among
not fundamental sex differences. males could be blamed on
L. Levin, evidence now indi- Previvusly, the differences
cates that eigarets can be (which are usually expressed
America every year. deaths women) had been attributed
Excess deaths ean be defined loosely to biological and other
loosely as early deaths. In differences between men and
lated sq comparing deaths 11. is important lo remember
general life expectancy expected tables. from He said tte tact thal the
Dr. Levin. chief of epidemi- Surgeon General's Advisory
ology at the Roswell Park Committee report on
Memorial Institute in Buttalo, did not
smokin;
N. Y., made his remarks at the
give a figure for tota:
sixth annual American Cancer excess deaths due to xmokine
Society Science Writers' Semi "underscores the magnitude el
par here.
this public Levio health problem."
He offered figures
reported on the
patients who had Sune
that nearly 45 percent of the through the institute's Ameri
higher male death rate can be can Cancer Society-sponsored
attributed to smoking.
rescarch project on smokers
The reasoning runs like this: withdrawal clinies, but gave no
In the 25-to-64-year age
statisties on how many had
155,700
more men than women He said
died in Amertca
preliminary
in a given indicate that an antismoking
typical year (1960),
compound, Lobeline. h elps
In the same year, there were smokers quit. but only while
69.800 excess deaths among male they are taking it.
smokers. These men
ably would not have died presum.
year had they not been that
smokers.
The excess deaths among
smokers constituted 20 percent

By GARY BROOTEN
Of The

of all deaths for that age group

communities.

Furthermore. said Dr. Morton smokinz.
blamed for "a minimum"
100,000 excess

nar.

celibacy and good hygiene. Can-
cer of the cervix is a common
disease. among American wom-

DUTY TO HUMANTTY

in of as a longer life expectancy for

"But they cooperated because ly.
duty to ali their sisters and to:
E humanity."
la to pia down some of the É cancer.
talfaciors.

simoking studies, they are caleu- women.
among smokers at each
level with deaths

that other factors are at work,"

age Dr. Levin said.

.
sister. On the other

there

already started collection of nun

first Dr. 300
indicating

in,

among the nuns.
rules
ulcers.

formation on the induence of

group. quit smoking.

liglous communities' no-smoking
seem a likely reason for
a strikingly Jow incidence of
bleeding ar perforating peptic
Preliminary resalts from the
main study were based on 575
of the 1116 deaths reported in
the communities last year.

results

heavy

1005151230 A