LOS ANGELES TI:ES
Los Angeles, Californio
October 20, 1954
n been proved,
lale
l'niversity

hainl uudn the premise that hination e a partirular tvpe
a sonnection hetween rica- in each nfthe three rategorics
Calls ret in smoking and disease has has alrcady produced 'a sale
Might Take Six Months one it is. so all can be made
Dr. "a Cuyler Hammond. that way. If not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Clarence Cnok Littie,
compiete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad.
date. said that "some say we visnrv board and seient fie di.
should wait for more defini rector o: the Tobarro Indus
tive evidence before develop- try Research Committee, de-
ing n safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would
nne hassaid just what the de produre some nf "the defni-
finitive evidence waud be." iive evidence" S weich Dr
Hi sad he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In his :alk in the Ameriran "We wiil tackle simultan
system was more important, line of the industrv's research
might prove surcessful in six do not have today the experi-
months, "with iuck," he said menta! evidence that willper-

cigarette J1, so, scientific re-
search should prove which
should find one, "since
ple like to smoke cigarettes."
seribed the mutlines nf stud-
Tackle Unknewns

Expert
for

atatistician

peo-

Safe'
Cigarettes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming

NEW YORK, Ort. 61 (1LP) this viewnoint.

The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Societs meeting. Dr. eously manv of the unknowns
arette smoking with bath Hammond said the relation- in this field of tobaccn 11* in
lung cancer and heart dis. ship nf rigare:te smoking to relation to human health," he
ease is "overwhelming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out-
something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. ""We seek definitive
once about developing "a safe health, than the relationship Andings in an area where
cigarette. in a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to much suggesaive work has
cal scientist told the annual find "a safe eigarette" from heen done. The program nf
meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recognizes tha: we
t'fic advisory board of the There are various types of garding the rause and efert
Tobacco Industry Research lahacen, there are varinus relationship hetween rrv rom.
Committee ansounced some of types R. filters, and these are mental factors, inrluding
the details nf is scicatific re. varinus sonti.usjaut n! curing The most important

Cancer Society today.
At the xame time the scien-

Outlines Deseribed

mit scientifie conclesions re.
smoking and lune eancer:
current lung cancer rase: in
10 medical centers in :he Ent
ed States and Canada

srarch
program

which toharen, he Raid, and it may

procect

is he thar some fortuitous com- set up was a diree: scudy - nf

LOS ANGE LES EXAMINER
los Angeles, California
October 20, 1954

It will include numerous
studies of humans, including
emotional habits of smakers.
an well as tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. The apecifio research
grants, financed Aq the TIRC,
will be announced later.

HEALTHSTUDY
ON TOBACCO
NEW YORK. Oct. 19.-UP-
A broad stx point study seek
Ing knowledge whether eigareta
or other forms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health haz.
ards was announced today.
It ia the first announcement
of a big research program
headed by the selentifie ad.
visory board of the Tobacco In.
dustry Research Committee

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062