2fy
slu/PP
JHT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira Nr York Times Semier
wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotioo about 80 New Taiwan dollars A
made cigarettes last year, ringing became a issue even in recent
($2.86) compared with 22 panies can advertise on TY after cigarettes and an aggressive campaign. Television gifts," Tre LERAN was out- lawod in the States in 1971. junior high PRassum old Cigarette packages sold in i3ycars and UTARI must carry a label undurg sake & health, don't smoke too to mandan with than the health-warning labels jou 01 much because of the adver. tising as because they are of better manufactur- quality and Laste beiter. American
TAIPEI - The Marlboro cow- dn sales of $119 million. In 1986, trade talks betwoen the United 111 Taiwan dollari E sents)fora boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- States and Taiwan. Wang Chicn. pack of Taiwan-made cigareites. ghing from his mouth, has come de eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan'sdeputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis- town, His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered R ing in Japan are more liberal. Com-
and dod-pur-woun. stores through- UTS cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest. guitar-playing. pep-surar promot. Indeod, Asian sales accountod This frenetic, fast-groming OA- cigaretie exports last year, primari- teachers told me that billion cigarettes last dropped long-siandiog restrictions. are DON smoking How can rubstantial number of chem were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? It's O.K. to To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year, re- joy a $16 UOITA trade ialand, And that has created a furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year. that." Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled American cigarette tbe American companies of entic- the past year. Tbe market share ing teen-agers take dn moking, more than of a charge the American companies from 3 percent perceot s? 1986, The goverumen-administered dicis that it could grow le 11 8. 20 sales pitch. operation that had monopolized percent kq 1992. .pressure from Washingson. In the alcohol. year since stiff restrictions on for. "This really burts our .cign cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw have soared, peadod growth American man- prasensing ufacturers ata time when sales la expori Taiwan? Younger laws = way "dn
OUI this city, next to posters ofa peroeni. b Winston of cigarettes. tioe of nearly 20 million poopie amoked 34
amusement placesto 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting
most for of the in American growth ly because
a said recently. "Many school- advertising of
both Taivin and Japan school students - 12,
year and for the first time, a According to the Brown Pr Wil. rette companies promote ciga. roughly transiated, says, "For the brinds to Taiwan, American man- sulting S' si bilion in new sales. the United States. But surplus those people mandaied in the United States. bfacturers have essentially intro- InJapan, which has - population are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe 'oompanies Amencan paonp cigarette advertising to the of 120 million and where people, man, human being.you wod't do cigarettes are selling max in Taiwan
made .a America, not Taiwan. all American-made
cigarettes occupy the whole markets. We en. much" a warning much milder
American cigarettes increased E vigorously deny there is any-
e botly deny.
585 last ander
thing wrong with the way they are cigareties are made of blended to promoding their producta and bacco and have less which tar than Tai.
are not
Department of Agriculture pro- thry have no pians lo change Es wasese bleadod. cigarettes,
Tbey are not allowed to advertise a small stores where cigarettes are kold, as well as through promo- a feelings." legisiator. tions. Cigarette manulacturers may |dom exooods 200,000. L PRIGE
the cigarette market had not adver- Taiwan officials they resent on television or in newspapers. Nor A government agreed de allow markets de producta that éndanger They can advertise only through .others into tbe business oaly under people's health, like cigareites and postershung near cigaretie racks or à American cigarettes b Taiwan T.. tbe United Shau-kong Sustes docs not en- also place 120 ada a year 5! maga- the Uailod States are way down and femaics are smoking a 39. Before last i forcign ciga- and a number of anti-smoking causc of American E They hire rettos accountod R! leas than 1 According to the U.S. Depart- arettes Troe in "onpughtu k's ARA cigarettes, banned importa at 29 meat & Agriculture, people B Tai. difficult for young boys 10 resist, 70,000 retail outlets licenaed 01 sell
tised, altbough it does now,
American pressure 59 open their have they pushed to do io, they say.
much- courage its poople lo amoke, why zines, cach of whosc diculation acl. young altractive pho-riak-6! girla oent of the market. Taiwan Suyran short skirts 01 give inp de posed strict quotas on foreiga and then it becomas a babit. Il's cigarettes and imposed stif tariffs.
a
24
immoral."
È result, imported cigaretie cost
