- 996
pab .r
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
a Findings
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem
Richard L. Nacye. MD, and Woodrow S. Dollinger, MS may vary in incidence and S.omerect Counties of eentral pneumuconiosis were anined anthracite roal. Surveys eun- roentgennnraphic ing rhift of exposure E werk- tle tnu cisdrciers eatie fout of uir 11Ar0,000 fur parides per
Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one patient to another. In bituminous coal, found to corrclate well with quantitative. measurements of a the volume of postmortem anatornic nodules, and (2) the silica (silicon pulmonory dust macules and macules and nodules. recognition of cmphysema and chronic cor which appear to be most closcly correlated pulmorale, with miners with no roentgenographic emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspnea in addition lo dust with silica and collagen,
process but a a study of 77 miners of dioxide)and collagen content of dust évidence of pncumoconiosis had
rank, low-volatile coul In Cambrin and rylvanla. Nonc of 7 men l'ean- ducted betwern 1902 and 1955 ly the Pennsylvanin Dupartmeat of Miner and Mineral Industries phowed an average coal dunt bituminess wark- free silica cuntent of cunl d ant In low la all arenn of F neldom belng greater Penneyina itan $.. However, the mine durt contentra. t: mof free aillea in grester far u udergruund wurkers Puch aa sone nof ojer The TT casce pulverin drand. Kalaane fiks ley cauthera, whovinited rach of ruven pirpose R. -neral huspital, and rea. aU- every man age win, t aml Ithis, The hatch easen atarted with the patinier girts' descriptions uf the lunga Tu- U rre was any mention of When ese..ive pigment, parenchymal nedul , fine rl. or any histury of minins:. the ti. nt'a elinical chart was -ul eran.ind, rludy unly utirinlsa 4743 specin. minen t.arl ur in tu: sirmed hy a h I-ta pobrilde nasphtained. thrunan' Pr mousomattu.turaber 223 027050
roentgenographic categories for
hnd ever
Unfertunately. there was poor
dyspnea. A mumber of ers, The
matules
:
wosh 10: to 462 of Appalachian chitis graphie evidenee of pneu- bern dificult to make, earlystages." Theau dificulties prol- of the current workers' pneumnconiosis ("black lung") de not a single disenne but a composite uf and severity, dupendent upon Rro gruphie aren, exort posure, and apparent individual sus- ceptibility." These nultiple dis. Paticuts.-The ordes. indude(lithe primaryeonl dust Kullagent * du I - Crster, Reptim P : M. 4 * H.rhe, Hardry. M. Sial nearly Hou Herdy, (be I I Apral or 1972 Vol 220, No 2
H coal workers have rorntgeno- lur, panlolular, andbronchiolitise) erntriluhu- In-iters and eledrie Inconsive meconlonis, hut corelatiuns belween emphysema: und a tuberrulusin and r.k or encounter into ailichearing symptoms, and physical findinge have There sepurate disepe prireses tl rough a search selerted uf nute keand ably arie from the fact that roal individoal sualy evaluate thir Le ? protorel that
and pararicitsicial : who drill
such roentgenugrophic abnormalitics. orusionally othr di : procisses."
appear to make ditfering rwitailu. : ographie fratures of parumorminsi.. In twern 1nnu proves Another aim is tu determine if poru- fur enigenographic abnormulaties Patients Studiod and Methods
erpecinlly la tions to disability." h in the
tn
influences nn the ruentgen- al : than al yrara Invohesa of
each of which multiple disorders, muconiunis with disalility eainta in may vary in inridenre sone workers withent aneuriated
orrupational à
patients Wete et un. ar. - informatinn
maculu; (2) ailivusis (1) chrunic lehun- derground miners nf hitumittour enal li. annl uthr data merrerning nompa
frum Pennayhania and Wert Vir- à 1 nan ineludal In were the. esttuce: A
Fem d hopann. ni nf Pvt-be, ginia, Thir:y-one I alwaya mined nf r Enterity Hantry Medical Cantet. Penn..hunis State low-rank high-volatib-condin reanties Kr uned treupational In
of smthnestern nerthern ether ai had
Ponneslvania W. PUBLICATIONS
Vir,in.ia Tl.- : nail and Irteplame tim inening restine
alway, min d higher in' emation
10346287
