A

by Samuel IS. Epstein
The amhor surveys the reord of
industri-generated data
Ewalang eniemeshumishar unttamsonson data-
frem gluns madequars. bused merpretation. ma
mpulatom. suppresann and even la outrigha de
Mtminm-ate commonplace. esperially when
prohtable inhnolugirs are mohed. Alarmingh.
suheudeme now jushes strong resenations as 01
thevalulus of an data developed hn institunions ur
indwaluals nhunr momumin intetess are dueith or
Information a the cunems of eronumi and
pulanal pamer Drosson-making al all levels a gm.
etament preuppenesthr.udalabalal of a buds of in-
formation. AMI the hann of whis h the relaine merits
al akernate poln an he anahred and hunsidered.
Ifshn mfumatam et data base in lal nnhed ur imal
xl. then nhatevrt de namsate teau hed saus abube
unpeston malal, threatenng the laban of demm
The mershelming tulk of all beneht and nk
data. en nhnh nust tegulates des isions are hased.
sumes frem ihe melunes thenneher hemgregulat.
ed Theve data ateether generated and mterpreted

mulnesth afles sed

S gmerment

3 a

Buh into thn prens H d adre of sonsulanis,

In m-honne M wrutate stall un In tommers N lalana generalh from presigean unneruues or reseanh
tursand unnersmes unden comatto mdustrs maitules, whuse stamp ol appr.nal pronides the
In-lunn menth sall are nut mmmune to un dana wnh an addumal mantle of amhorits Thr
Mann and subonumuns presures from tesearsh identers ol these consulianas are often hidden new
and devehpenem and markeing department.ans. onh from the publu bun alu from ther onn unner
Hus iu huin thet produs ent prinew mtem situsm insmutens Themduarulmeressofthese
mene Indusanal amma har mualh anaisled sr. umsulumts ate ethet IAN diskmed to the agenurs
steh In sommetaal labonatoties and unneismes, mnhine artuurs and espen commitiees thes SH.
anlusut Imhlung hus leen solaned en the unte in ildebmodare I mans.medm.ombdrmal
market. d pratne hardh ronsuent wath the ethn be let's lan.h at d t i hntoties from
comitants.nabuseme mmmme ter unpoken prames Cimstramt MI thr Cirnrtatum e Dele
and mas panlune mfermatnm e merpuenations the nww sommen problem wath mdustrall gen.
umstem nuh mhan arepesend an thentetesel etated dana i a I qualus Deeph tomemedto
thr commang muluun, nrn thugh thn lumed thr madepun ed dau sulumated in 1967 te the
petepum p mate hkeh maffeutshonarim, tath- lind and Dug Admantration (FDA In mdun
Suns tpanpapam pamrandape andr a pommin fewd addene Ment ongmall submumed In she
I 1 thr al d f el i Heuh - unenh i In. Foud and Dug Admmsnatatom har hern ine -

idsompeninesapualom

the heddafuucupumalandemunmmmestam.um.cr

thesomater. rager fo the I al funur
eithan loug-tem. meeress.andialurs

m maldm ol haul addane petitions, then Commn.
sinnen Healer Lescomplamed Alunt hall of the
har mul mleputel supposed shu regula
aul thartens lane tegunedsube

I Meduuft I : hang Ihalta. Smal 1 3
I a a sh puhfad hn Im Panam a : : hathre plerem

dew hr pastut
I
4

hestirgested

cunces
825