HKB2223022

Life Selences Vol. 15. PP. 1291-1300
Printed in the V-S.A.

Perganon Press

METAROLISM or ProtalPYETDE a <tow - - FRON
TISSUES b PRECOLANT AND TITAL MAMNTERE
I Y. Mang, Ronald a Rasmunsen, and T. Timothy Crocker*
Cancer Research Institute, Univeraity of California, San Praneisco, and Depart-
! of community and mvironmental Medieine, Univereity of California, Irvine".
(Received in final form 26 August 1974)
I
Pretrestment of hansters vith benzo ta)pyrene (BaP) greatly incressed
3 si vitre metaboliam of E b lung alerosonns i prognant I
atare, and I leve effect 5 the metabolim of BaP by iiver adere-
I The produetion of various metaholites of ! I lung adere-
sonos E inereaned to different axtentar 3-hydroxy-maP (3-CH-BAP)
! ene of the najor matabolites; a metabolic yielda of :
dihytrodihuptroxy-BaP (9,10-diol) and 7,0-diol vere incrensod nore
than that of f. 4,5-diol. In the ehse of 1iver nierosomes, only the
yielde of 9,10-diol and 7,0-diol vere incressed ovar the eontrel
leveis, The presence of cyclohexene oxide in the incubation E
tures decreased the production of the diole. Basal-leval eneyme
activitier in placental, fetal 1iver, and fetal akin microsones in
metabolizine E vere very low. Pretrentment of pregmant hainaters
with Bap indaced Bar-netabolizing ensymes in fetal tierue 2-3 fold.
Bansotalpyrene (harl le . carcinogen and environmental contaninant that is
found in eoal tar, aineral oll, : exhaust, tohacco snoke, moked foode, ete.
(1). In vitro sraties shoved that netabolic activation of Bar ie required for
ita intaraction with proteine and nuelele acide (2,3). Rarller studien with
rat 1iver preperations :4,5) and hanater liver mierosones (6,7) shoved that Bar
le metahelised minly 8 phenolie and dihydrodihyfroxy (diol) derivatives, and
S quinones - are enzynatie or air ovidation producte & unstable phenolic
metabolitas (4,51 as vell an some unidentified nore polar metabolites, The
metabolien of Rat has generally been ressured A the production of 3-hydroxy-
BaP (3-OR-Bar) which ie often one of the major metatolites in vitro (3). 3-0H-
DaP ie tonie te evitured celle (9), but it shove vory 1ietle interaction with
DNA in vitro (6) and has not been shown 3 & carcinogenic. & the other hand,
K-regton epowides ef related polycyelie aronatic hylrocartone (PAM)bind 8 cell-

1291