Appindia )
seminars in CANCER BIOLOGY, Vol 1, 0661 : pp 127-136
The role of cathepsin L in malignant transformation
Susan E. Kane and Michael M. Gottesman *
Procathepsin 7 is the major excreted protein of malignantly What is MEP: The first hint as to the identification of transformed mouse fibroblasts and it is one of the major MEP came from studies in which MEP was shown to acid cysteine proteases in mammalian cells. The broad gen- be a glycoprotein containing mannose 6-phosphate.s eral protease activity of cathepsin L against a variety of Since mannose 6-phosphate is a Ivsosomal recogni- extracellular matrix proteins as well as ather intracellular tion marker. it appeared that MEP was a Ivsosomal protein substrates, and its regulation by factors twhich stim- protein whose transcription was increased as the ulate growth, suggest that it contributes to the transformed result of growth stimulation. A search for hydrolytic phenotype. Possible functions in antigen processing, inua- activities associated wich purified MEP led to the dis- siveness, metastasis, and turnover of intracellular and covery that MEP was an acid protease inhibitable by secreted proteins involued in growth regulation have been leupeptin, which put it in the class of cysteine pro- Key words: Cathepsin 1 / growth factors / numor pro- resembled that of cathepsin L.10 However, published THE ASSOCIATION of cathepsin L with the process of weights of 21,000 Da and 5000 Da, whereas MEP was malignant transformation was first demonstrated in a 39,000 Da protein. This discrepancy was resolved 1978, when in was found that malignantly trans- when the sequence of MEP CDNA was determined formed mouse fibroblasts secrete large amounts of a and its deduced amino acid sequence was compared 39,000 Da protein into their culture medium.1 This to the available partial protein sequence of cathepsin protein, termed MEP for major excreted protein, was L. MEP was found to be the precursor to the lysoso- purified to homogeneity and rabbir antisera were mal form of cathepsin L." identical to the major cys- raised against the purified mouse protein. The anti- teine protease of activated macrophagesi? and the sera were found to precipitate an intracellular pro- major ras-induced protein of transformed tein which was present in nontransformed celis and fibroblasts. IS For the remainder of this review, MEP synthesized at dramatically increased rates in trans- will be referred to as procathepsin L. be the result of elevated amounts oftranslatable MEP tied to growth stimulation in cultured cells? Does the MRNA.3 Later, after a CDNA for MEP was cloned, enzymology of cathepsin L indicate anything about this high level of MRNA was demonstrated by nuclear its possible function in malignancy? Why is pro- run-off siesse to be the result of increased transcrip- cathepsin L secreted even though it carries lysosomal tion.5 PMA, a phorbol ester tumor promoter, and a recognition markers? How is it processed to yield variety of growth factorsta7 were shown to stimulate mature cathepsin L in lysosomes? How do oncogenes MEP synthesis and secretion, suggesting that MEP and growth factors regulate expression of procathep- was associated with the process of growth in cultured sin L mRNA? Does cathepsin L play a role in human
proposed.
teases. More detailed analysis of the proteolytic specificity of MEP on oxidized insulin B chain. a stan- dard protease substrate, showed that MEP activity data on cathepsin 7 suggested that the lysosomal form of this protease was a protein consisting of two polypeptide chains having approximate molecular
moters / oncogenes / secreted proteases
formed cells.2 This increased synthesis was shown to
Why is the synthesis of procathepsin L so closely
fibroblasts.
cancer? This resiew will attempt to provide answers to
these questions.
From the Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Netional Cancer Institute. NIH, 9000 Pockuille Pikr, Building 37, Room 2E16, Bethesda, MD 20892. USA *To whom rebrints requests should be addressed Q 1990 by WB Saunders Company 1044-579X/90/0102-010455.00/0
Enzymology of cathepsin L
Cathepsin L is a potent cysteine protease. one of sev eral acid proteases presumed to be invoived in the
127
