E
SYMPTOMS AND THE INGIANOHIANE-O8DIA IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
et al. (1987) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
4 a cross-sectional investiganion in one building. office building built over the last 50 years with a validased complains associased with the "sick building syndrome" questionnaire. The symptoms were more commoa .B build- were measured on e linear analog E questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and Ar the same time. the micro-environment (environmental humidification. irrespective of the * of the I A characteristics in the breathing zone H I area direct relationship berween the level of complaints and air samples) a characserized kq measuring temperanure, Augenb parameten : nos described. Skov et a (1967) ex- relacive humidiry, respirable papuadsns "cemound 3 pourure indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern Danish bon dioxide, noise level, lighting insensiry, relacive har town halls and 14 older control buildings. A level of 1 midiry, and airflow. No relationship a seen between toms was related 01 "feecing" factor (carpets, upholstery. d degree of sympioms and age. I or durasion and horizontal surfaces) ad the "macro-moleculer I of employment at the building or time nads in she 1 I of dust. They aho demonstrated - relationship between Shn on a daily I Staristically, complains were the sumber of hours spent photocopying and using carbonless significantly more frequent I Suppous I Ervi- Aduo paper and the level of complaints. Other srudies have ronmensal characieristics associaled wish * increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985) complaint levels in this group included decreased airflow 3 psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute models, there a an association berween mgauadsa as- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome by mea- pended particulases and the levels of boch mucous I suring moaduis and environmental exposures. Robertaon et brane pue sysemic complaints. Satisfaction 1 * F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. I environment as predicted wopdsound ofdreft ferences in the concentrations of eaviroamental although regression models E I R compl R building. & studied the rooms with the 1 compl
I
velociry and increased levels nqundsaufo -mdpopusdms 8 indoor air quality complaints.
siculases I dry-bulb semperanure. In regression
Several studies have attempted 8 identify the actual
R nor
I veatilated naturally agnin
clearty consribuse ot she I a independent of thermal [ S insensiry I also associated 1 mudies of * sick building syndrome L measures or idenaify predictors of complaints in
of sympsoms, berween rooms in a mechanically and a
I mena
I a used area samples. Skov et al. (1967) did I unare strate a relationship between sympsoms and g area sem I ples measuring dust & a "macro-molecular" traction, Area samples is buildings ! not be representative of a exposures in different points le single I Physical characteristics such as windows and partitions, I and shelving may infuence air currents. Radiant I may
multiple exposures simultaneously and inctude prycho- B' a I
indoor spaces. INTRODUCTION
Complaints sermed the "sick building syndrome" I lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally. I pol- led 6 numerous investigations in a last is years. They are hutants resuk from point souroes, os they will be diluted a a thought 0 occur primarily in newty constracted I 1 subject .a farther removed from the source. The micro * inp and, at least in the past, were thought to be * to viroement around desks and within cubicles may have very inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1984). Neverthelem, a different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroo- # variety of causes have been identibed in specific settings, ment of a building. la addition. all applied occupational and inctuding inadequate temperature and relative humidity 8 environmental health research that artempes O relate I to trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds beakb effects suflers from the problem E I is penerally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, enviroamental sobecco measured at several points in time and then extrapolated lo < smoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicle I 8 allow development of exposure classifications I decades spent & contaminated air and boiler I fibers released * most heakh effects are measured as a single I of from & linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures. Where the variability of I A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom et a 1984) I that these complaints were related pri. day to day but from hour to hour. such a stratep must fail. (Robertson et al. 1985) was unable os identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the micro wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (temper- eaviroament and set these characteristics la relation a a ature), relative humidity. air velociry, formaldehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at . given point is time. This itive or negative ions between several rooms in a building report preseats results of a cros-sectional investigation of a with aatural and - building with mechanical ventilacion. problem building using a self-administered, [ analog. where both a of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom E I a Amistam Profesor of Medicine and ol Industrial and Enviromental Heakh Soences at the Univerury of I Schoots of Medicine and Publec Heahh. 'd f a Director. Enviroomental Health and Safery. Camepe-Mellon Univeruty, Pittsburgh. PA.
(Kreiss and Hodpson 1984; Hodpson a Kreiss 1906). marily 01 mechanical ventilation. A same proup of authors
results is preater than the difference in average samples, and No investigations in the peer-reviewed literature I
4
PAticers TRINgEIS Susp
