i Epidemial Vol. 4 Na. 10, po 1143-1162, 194 Copyright o 1994 Elsevier Science E Prinsed in Great Beitain AR righta rescrved 0895-435694 $7.00 +0.00
Pergamon
0895-135694900081-6
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN SMOKERS, EX-SMOKERS PASSIVE SMOKERS AND NON-SMOKERS ALISON THORNTON, PETER LEE* and JOHN FRY 'd N. 3 Statisties and Computing Led, 17 Cedar Road, Sutton, Surrey SM2 SDA, England (Receased le resteed form & March 1994) Abstract- A extent to which current, ex- and passive smoking are associated with other risk factors, and the potential for confounding arising from these associations, was studiod using a representative sample of 9003 British adults. The distribution of 33 lifestyle factors generally oonsidered associated with adverse health were compared in current smokers, ex-smokers, never smokers living with a smoker ("passive smokers") and other never smokers. or the 33 risk factors 27 showed a significantly higher prevalence in heavy smokers than in never smokers and only two showed a lower prevalence. For many risk factors, prevalence increased with amount smoked, decreased with time of smoking oessation and was increased la passive smokers. The possible magnitude of bias from confounding by the risk factors W. estimated. It is concluded that confounding by multiple risk factors may be an important issue in smoking studies where I associations are observed. This applies particularly to studies investigating the possible association of passive smoking with various health effocts. Smoking Passive smoking Confounding Bias
INTRODUCTION
gists normally do attempt to take account of
Numerous epidemiological studies have investi- such differences where relevant to the endpoint gated the relationship of current smoking, past studied and thus 5 to minimize bias due to smoking and exposure to environmental confounding. Differences betwoen non-smokers tobacco smoke ("passive smoking") to mor- exposed and not exposed to environmental tality and morbidity from a variety of discases tobacco smoke are less well studied, though 11) Bocause smokers and passive smokers are recent reports [4,5) have pointed to a possible not a random selection of the population, such confounding of the lung cancer relationship by theoretical possibility that observed differences A study of the literature over many years by between the groups studied may arise, at least in one of us (PL) has led to a number of pro- part, duc to differences in exposure from other visional conclusions being reached. Firstly, risk factors and not wholly to effocts of smoking smokers tend to have unhealthier lifestyles than or of environmental tobacco smoke exposure. non-smokers in a number of respects, so that Many differences between smokers and non- they would be expectod to have higher rates of smokers, such as in alcohol consumption purizl many diseases even in the absence of any effoct social class [3). are well known and epidemiolo- ofsmoking. Secondly, for many ofthese lifestyle
studies have always to take into account the diet.
2 4 a 2 b 4 2
factors passive smokers are also somewhat worse off than non-smokers unexposed to
"Author for correspondence.
1143
