HKB2228112
SANTABANBARA SANTA.

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO

: pa.- IF 5 : Asd hote: - stal 1 SASTRAM M

IABHIA MITORNA :

MIRM IN VIMISE
TEPARIMI 4 : PAURENT
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willian H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Research roundation
715 Muir Lands Vista May
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. fishman:
and Salk.

We are looking fonsard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolia rescarch Locdunity. In particular, the activities of the la Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes
should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnnent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental
prublems is partizularly ieely. It will be o! g:at potential inportance for
pulling tegetter wort, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation,
characteriztaion and doterniniation of the significance of hunan oncodevelopmental
antigens such as alphafeteprotein and carcinoembryonic antigens.
One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship
of increased serura concentrations of AFP to presalignant lesions or carcinogen
exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systers clearly derion-
strate tnet anirals pasodxa to hepatocarcinouens have elevated serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developrant of melignant tmers. It is hoped that systemrtic
study of human scra frum differect auurces will determing if serus AFF concun-
In addition, the role of envirunsental factors such as hormonal influences on
the production of oncodevelopseut.tal gene prakis can be further explored in
different sy:tons. Such data implies thal (he prod;u tion of ciscodavelopmental
gene product, by tunor cells is net a fixed property of a given tumoir but is
We look foncard to workina with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the inportant subject of oncodeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinosen exposure.

subject to enviroumental controls.

expression.
Best regards.
Stewart Sell, H.D.
Professor
SS/nb

a