Vol. 285 No. 23

EDITORIALS

1317

The New England
Journal of Medicine
Official Organ of
The Massachusetts Medical Society
Founded in 1812 as the New ENGLAND Jounxal, or
MEDICINE AND SURGERY and continued in 1828 as Vol. 1 of
the BOSTON MEDICAL AND SURGICALJOURNAL
PUBLISHES WEEKLY BY THE COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATIONS
or THE MASNACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY
Claude E. Weich, M.D., Cininnan
Joseph Garland, M.D., EDITOR EMERITUS
Franz J. ingelfinger M.D., EDITOR
ASSOCIATE Entroas
George S. Richardson, M.D., Boox Reviews
Robert O'Leary, ASSISTANT EDITOR
EDITORIAL BOARD

ACTION ON ASBESTOS
AsBESTOS workers are unintentional victims of
industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary
fibrosis, pleural calcification, mesotheliomas andlung
cancer. Asbestos exposure is now
wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the
lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex-
posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or
ferruginous bodies may be, there is no doubt that
electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers
ease in the general population at this time, the
presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing.
Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction
most chemical and physical means and can float
freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods.
sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must
be made now, on the basis of "reasonable probabili-
ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition
These thoughts are reinforced by the work of

involving not

air but also widespread,
drinking water.

only

Alexander Marble. MD,
Samucl Proger, M.D.

Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos.2 Al-
Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-

by

Jane F. Desforges, 6
Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.

Ronald A. Malt, M.D. Asbestos discases have a long latent period, 20
Arnold L. Smith, M.D, years or more. We therefore believe that more

of dose-response relations.

Robert E, Johnson, 9
Norman P Levinsky, M.D.
Francis D, Moore, M.D,
Charies < Sanders, M.D.
Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D.
Ronald A. Arky, M.D.
Dana L. Farnworth, M.D.

Jola W. Litdefield, M.D, Murphy and associates in this issue of the Journal
Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, (p 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved 51
Louis Weinstein, M.D, new ship construction include better
John R. David, M.D. exposure data and indicate a high incidence of as-
Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. pestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have
Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-

usual
than

Howard Bleich, M.D,

Isadore N, Rosenberg, M.D.
Milton d Paige.Jr., BUSINISS MANAGER

tions. A second study of Murphy et al.' reports two
cases of pleural disease (one mesothelioma) la
workers who sanded asbestos floor tiles. Since the

AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au-
und should consult "Information for Authors." This material thors simulated the working conditions and found
may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour- conçentrations of C'I Gbers per milliliter 'of room
CASE REPORTS, usually published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 401 Abers every
gence" section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled
cine is covered by copyright, The Journal does not hold iuelf A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation-
REPRINTS: The Journal does not stock reprints of the arti- tion of those who are exposed in their occupations.
ALTHOLGH all advertising material accepted is expected 5 biologic effects and the physical characteristics of
SUBSCRIPTION PRICES (worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, rangre of safe exposure is to be established with :
interns, residents $7.50 peryear). Rates are in U.S. fundsonly. confidence." Although we endorse these recommen-
MICROFILSE volumes available to regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for
through University Microfilms, 315 N. First Street, Ann technical controls based on existing
COMMUNICATIONS shouid be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as-
land Journal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects

nel, or # may be obtained from the Journal office. The entire air. This concentration is less
including references, should be typed double
space, pue all material, including figures, should be submit- used
reference to articles reporting closely related cases. A very fibers remains in the
short case report or a description of a technic submicted a a
"BRIEr RECORDING" should be limited to 500 words,
MATERLAL prinsed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period.
responsible for statements made kg any contributor.
NOTICES should be received not later than noon on Mon-
day, 24 days before date of publication.
cies published. Requests should be sent to the author.
imply endorsement by the Journal,
Arbor, Michigan 48106.
chusetts 02115.

1/5 of
than
currently
these
lung,
figures suggest that
has called for control
panel
needed
urgently
"if a
knowledge.

manuscript,
ted in duplicate.

threshold

limit values. A fiber per milliliter of
room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per
an alarming number will still accumulate over a "OI
of asbestos emissions at the source and for protec-
The report also calls for further research on the

et Academy of Sciences

conform so ethical medical standards, acceptance does not asbestos fibers; such data are

on cells and tissues are important and must be con-