1 -

3 > -

-
Pku 3nd

Carcinogenesis vul IS MI E rp2721-2725, rool

Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke
carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butandne and
benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of

C3420

chemopreventive agents

Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin
Amencan Health Foundation, Valhalla, NY 10595, USA

models examined to date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class
of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco
smoke (I). We have chosen the A/J mouse because previous

The purpose of this study SEM to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce
model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against Jung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced
lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction in AIJ mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to
by 4<(muthylabressmincl.cayrdyh-l-butame (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined
and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated.
individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice 2 evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg
were treated by either intragastric gavage (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a aumber of
intraperitoneal injection (1.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP,
and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and7.12-dimethylbenzialanthracene (9,10).
either 9 or 61 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse OI evaluate the effects of
forestomach were counted. The i.g. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK
proved to be more satisfactory than "d' administration, (4.11.12). Results obtained with the Al) mouse can be replicated
because = avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl lisothiocyanate
theinjection site and associated mortality. A dose-response (PEITC) le an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by
relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 rat (11,13).
mice killed 9 or 61 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single
treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect 01 tobacco
of tz. jumol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke. which contains at least 40 carcinogens (I). The
have been expeeted extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important
when given sq the i.g. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either
were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP
The most fasorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to
evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during
dose of 24 jumol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and
subdoses i.g., with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we examined tumor yields obtained
dosing. This regimen induced 10.5=4.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for
mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen. 8 weeks, followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61
ethylisothiocyanate, given 2 in prior 10 each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a
and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung prelimianry test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC
tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP.
this study provide a convenlent model for assessing the NNK was synthesized ia the American Health Foundation Organic Synchesis
efficacy of chemopreventive agents against Sunt cancer Facility. Rts purity was established by HPLC as >997. Bap (98% purity),
Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were
could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirt containing 5% corn oil, as previously 2
play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups ef 15 as sammarized in Table 1. At age 7 weeks, each mouse was
kers: 4-(metiyinitosamino)-1-cmiimm-iiinox1-0-pyndybyl-butone (NNK") treased by intraperitoneal (ip.) injection or by intragastric gavage (ig) with
and benzolalpyrenc (BaP) e NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical in 01 mi cononseed oil. NNK and BaP were both
carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in the 0.1 ml uned for treatment Injections and gavages were carried
*Abbrovintions: NNK, wevousnay14reptd-c3-10pursoguppussurt individuat dese was one-eighth of the rotal. Equimolar doses of NNK and
aaP, benzolelpyrena: PEITC, phenethyl isothiocyanaie: BITC, benzyl Baf were used le most of the combination "sdnoud because the amounts of

which these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given

The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively

of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the
that Bal was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK

Most previous studies in the A/) mouse have examined
We sought 01 develop a model which could be used to

Comparisons of

and RaP given individually showed representatives of the lung

in tobacco smoke

eschy

carcinogens

(11.

5.9:5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely
induction by tobacco smoke carcinogens.

inhibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods

BITC (989 (Aund and PEITC (985 (Aynd were abtained from the Aldrich
Chemical Cempany (Milwaukee. WI). Cottonseed oll was purchased from
Female AJI mice. age 5 wecks. were obtoined from The Jackson Laboranory
(Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the
The desiga ofthe bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1. The mice were dividede
out for 8 consecutive weeks. The total doses are given in Tuble L Each
NNK and total carcinogenie polycyclic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke are

Sigma Chemical Co. (St Losis, MO).

Introduction
5,

agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).

b

isothiocyanate, ip. intriperitoncal; a introgastric gavage.

OOsford Unvenity Press

2721

-