HERALD STATESMAN 0. 41.321-S. 41.500 NEW YCRK aTY METROPOLITAN AREA
Smoking and health Knowing
start?
the risks, "There is no question tion of this stuff is what Dr.
we
why do ning of cigaret advertising spot tn the past four Today, only 48 per cent en- counter this type of an- meantime, magazines and ers as young, healthy, sexy, Dr. Berenzweing and his- a "We're trying to figure "out some way to get people to cut it out," he said. - old subtle kind of psychological move that would work.. I pres- probably do peer it best. + sure would - : Thé Task Force report ment" and the op., your. own thing" phenomenon. THE MYSTERY SI why Countering these with tbe The Task hard. fact that smokers aré: in the minority: thinking and, physical well- possibly work 7 cigaret, for. the Bunos contemplating the health af is children important : WE CONDUCTED an - smokers among our. eol-
By JOANN UNDÉRCOFFLER "You've a come a long way, Baby!" the cigaret ad exults. "Baby" is seen as the American woman, svelte and smoking, making il in the marketplace along with her smoking brothers. long way. Way back when she didn't have the voté and il was considered unla- dylike in the extreme to :swering smoke, she didn'thave lung cancer either. Women today are falling victim de lung cancer at a rate Dr. J. Wister Meigs calls "epidemic" in the
that the population of the lung associated with smoking, he observed. ihe smokes. - "There was a time when heard of, in men as well as gle most important factor
women who began smoking Berenzweig is talking on television. In a 1969 sur- sometime after World War about. Ask any pathologist vey, 87 per cent reported II is beginning to turn up who has seen hundreds of having seen or heard an
the with lung a right
lung specimens under a mi-" anti-smoking television
malignancies of - croscope. Ask him: whether
weeks. smok- a
cancer was almost un- A 1976 STUDY by Yan- nouncement. In the women. Smoking is the sin- Society's Task Force on To- newspapers portray The American Cancer forth some disturbing dressed. Society's publication, Most-Often- and young women. In the 'aret Smoking and Lung teenage smokers 'ATTVWHON. particles lion girls age 13 and up. acts like an escalator, "very put together. constantly-carrying parti- among young women have' which" normally move at': the same period of time,
kelovich, and White Skelly for the American Cancer "An- trends among teenage girls
She has, indeed, come a in the rise of the disease. : bacco and Cancer brought, attractive and well
the Cancer, 11 has an easily-un- derstood explanation.
years between 1969 and colleagues regard these
'Asked Questions about Cig- 1976, the percentage of paradoxes with great con-
cern. girl grew from 22to 27 cent, a per ure adding dn to half a mit These are not giris.
a
/Sept. 5 issue of the Journal Finhaled with. the air we. Ismoking for status, the re- "They hear the same do of the American- Medical - breathe fall onto the mu- port states; they. are- s0-: things, and it doesn't any Association. In the state of cous lining of the bronchial cially at "ease, confident, good. There must "be some
Connecticut, he points out, tubes." it reads. "This lin; - men in the 35-to-44 age cles -upward by. the-whip-
-
1 than women
1975 figures moys more ing
Although
smokers think
lung cancer in group. tics?, Those habit-forming, are almost as popular with. womep today as they are :tion in lungs with men, and the medical - most. : a community that agrees than 80 mpre -per cigaret smoking, It took about for É 08 years to pin down the blame, but today they say there. is no . pack of around getting it. Marc Berenzweig Dr. heads the public committee of the Westches- ter Division of the Ameri-- can Cancer Society. As a cancer specialist (oncolog- ist), he is deeply con- cernéd.. TIMN 274642
ping'action of 'smalt, hair-" increased only slightly Otherwise 3 a pretty CIGARETS, that's why. the ratë of 1,000 times a the number of heavy smok-; pointe itwo reasons teen- jitters-quelling; minute. Inhaled cigaret- ers among them (more: agers 4 young women throat- M smoke slows or stops the than 'm pack a day) has. smoke : the "all-perva- scratching Tittle villains 3 action of the cilia and thus grown from 51 to 61 per; sive sinoking environ- -
Why these grim statis- like structures called cilia,: (from 34 to 36 per cent) la grim pieture."
impairs the cleansing ac-. that need it 'cent, s' Anyone who has, éver
the report revealed. smoke at all. they
cent of Lused a Alter. cigaret holder, Force report showed that -
actually against
lung cancer is the result-of: a - (the > common. joke is; both teenagers and Bunok with emphasis on the'im- searchers" and physicians in the filter after only one - e classroom lectures and . - being might the.
"Staying away. from ciga- women are well aware of! portance of independent
rets?") has seen what hap- the risks they are courting. "pens to those little crystals They have been exposed: - come black with gunk, and smoking. The subject added while the filter traps some comes dn in news reports: women. appeal education of this mess, il doesh't get constantly. The Task Force;
smokes. They be- it all.-A 20-year accumula-
films on the dangers of : searchers felt. There is an states that the one: pregnancy; their most dominant countervail-. a them. ing force awareness of, anti-smoking television
report sharply
has been
commercials reduced because of formal' survey of former, the cutback u! free match- leagues and found one com- ing time following, the ban- mon element - one way or
37703
