SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIBONMENT IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H. complaints associaied with the "sick building syndrome
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
1 al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire. The symptoms were more commoa le build-
In e cross-sectional invesnganion in X building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validased were measured on e linear analog scale quesionnaire. ings where the ventilation system abso provided cooling and Ar the same time, the micro-environment (environmental humidification. irrespective of the ae of the buildings. A characteristics in the breaching zone rather chan area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air samples) a characterized by measuring temper 'am quality parametens was not described. Skov et al. (L86I) en- relanive humidiry, respirable suspended perticulases, car amined indoor air quality symptoms ie 14 modern 1 bon dioride, noise level, lighzing inuensiry, relative ka town halls and 14 older control buildings. A I of 1 midiry, and airflow. No relationship a seen benween I was related 01 . "heecing" factor (carpets, upbolsery. the degree of symptoms and age. educarion, or durasion and horizontal surfaces) a & the "mecro-moleculer I of employment at the building or time spent in the build- nent" of dust. They also demonstrated a relationship between hn on a daily basis. Suarissically, complaints wre the oumber of hours wads photocopying and using carbonless significanty more frequent among Supyous men. Envi- Adoo paper and the leve! of complaints. Other studies bave ronmenial charecteristics associaled 1 the incresaed demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985) complaint levels is chis group included decreesed airfow and prychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute models, chere a 5 association benween respir a- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome 5 i pended particulases and the levels of boch mMCOt I suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et brane and ryssemic complaints. atisfaction 1 a F (1985) were unable to demonstrate a measurable dif- chermal environment e predicted by percepcion of dreft ferences is the concentrations of environmental pollutants R not clearly conribuse to the degree of rympioms, berween rooms ie a mechanically and a naturally veutileted I regression models PIP 1 t compl a building. They studied the rooms with the I were not independent ef thermal parameters. a i I and used area samples. à et al. (1987) did compl I insensiry a also associated 1 complaints. I strate . relationship between symptoms and boch ares I mudies of * # building syndrome should examine ples Suunsean dust and a "macro-molecular" fraction, 1
velociry and increased levelsof respirable muspende par to indoor air quality complaints.
riculates and dry-bulb "amomuadua e tession
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
.
# exposures simulsaneoualy and 1 psycho . area samples.
social measucres a identify predictors of I de
Area samples is buildings may Dot be representative of the exposures in different points in # rooms. Physical and sbelving may intuence air currents. Radiant heat may
indoor spaces. INTRODUCTION
characteristics soch a windows and
partitions, computers,
Complaints termed the E building syndrome" have lead 01 uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, most i led o1 numerous investigations in the last 15 years. They ane hutants resuk from point sources, os they a be diluted a a thought to occur primarily le newty constructed olice 1 subject ln fartber removed from the soarce. A micro 4 ings and, at keast in the past, were thought to be & to viroement around desks and I cubicles may have very inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem, . different exposure characteristies than the macro-environ # variery of causes have been identifed le specife settings, ment of a building. In addition, all applied occupational and inchuding inadequate semperature and relative bumidity c00 enviroamental bealth research that attempts to relate dose to trol, noise, I vibration. volatile organic compounds heakh effects suflers from the problem that dose la penerally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, environmental tobecco measured at several points in time 1 then extrapolated to smoke, pesticides, dust. entrainment of vehicle exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decades 1 E contaminated air and boiler I Abers released # most heakth effects are measured a . single resuk of from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sampling A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms may change not merety trom et  1984) paisatins that these complaints were related pri- day to day but from hour to hour, 1 a strategy mast fail. (Robertson et al. 1985) was unable to identify diflerences de attempted de characterize air-quality parameters is the micro wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (temper- eaviroament and set these characteristics 9 relation to the ature), relative humidity. air velocity, formaldehryde, or 7 level of individual complaints at a given point is I This itive or nepative ions between several rooms le a building report presents results of a crom-sectional avestigation of a with natural and a building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using . se'f-administered. linear I where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-amesment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom i I . Amauant Prolesor of Medicine and el Industrial and Enviroomental Heakh Sciences at the Univerty of of Medicine Public Heahh. a I B Direcor, Environmental Heahh and Salery, Camepie-Mellon Univeruty, Pirtsburgh. PA.
(Kreiss and Hodgson 1984; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986). marily to mechanical ventilation. The same dnodt of authors
results la greater than the difference in average samples, a No investigations in the peer-reviewed literature I
Schools Pemburgh
and
