True-fa Ise Questions on the Chenistry and 18-14601618/ud6waf4. Odor and Flevor e H F Sone nodern workers suggest that nccurate monaurenent of vibratlonal frequency (in the far intrared. for exanple) of an unknown odorant will permit prediction of its quallty and intenslty. No elenente substance, not even halides or ozone hos any odor; Instead they react with the nucose forning new products whlch are smelled; bur A Sone odorants have steric or vibrational propertles which force the concluston that they are odor less whon they are not. I1. TF Present evidence strongly suggests thet different parts of the olfactory receptor ares, /Ike the retina in the eye, are Quailty-specific T Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor No one yet has a fire clue as to the criticol relation between the molecule nnd the receptor which permits en odor perception. The greater the secretion rate of eucous or selive, the higher thelr pH, and both pH and tomperature Influence : quallty of sensation in the 111. H The ideal Instrumental detector 2 ld respond to odors in the sano quantitative range as does an onleat or human subject. 1  Such an Ideat detector hes not been developed. Ian observors with head In fixed position cen by virtue of the two Indopontent nostrils eesiiy discern stereo seol effects, 1.e. they can tel whother as ororont is at the right or left hand, much a one uses his two ears in locating the source of a sound. For certal In musk-liko compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger a hunon olfactory response V. - Adaptation to one olfactory qunlity does not signlficantly reduce sensitivity to any of ther dissiel ler quality, but does reduce sensi tivity to all sisilor quelities. A By employing a sinilerities nethod of comparing qualities, one con now obtein Identity and degroes of difference without recourse to troblo- vi. - Hunger lowers thresholds siightly to some food qualities but not for It s! now possible to loentify the Intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull sieply by expert examination of the siectrophysiological record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons. Electrical stimulation of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkaline" quality. Direct electrical stimulatlon of the olfactory senso has nover yet beon successfully eccompllshed. VII. 1 Although totel anosala is rare In humans and ageusio even rarer, there is evidence that in analogy to color vision deficiences, sone people are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while hoving normal sensitivity to others, Toplcal anesthetlcs applled to the tongue show that different qualities Certaln endocrine disense entitles make It possible for sote people quire sensitively to "snell" such "odor less" sutistances 6s sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both teste end odor can be reduced to noreal by manipuletion of endocrine lovels. Premenopausal wonon at the tIme of ovulation fInd certaln odors extresely disegreeab le whllo at other tInes In the menstrunl cycle these same odors
soe elements possess teste.
surface le order to be smelled,
chenicn senses.
IV.
soe words. others.
of taste disappear at different rates,
they will judge quite pleasant.
Ori
