New York Times March 1, 1968 Page 34
Another Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs to Use It By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pall Mall of Canada, Ltd., the second-larg. est cigarette sompany in that country, contraced yesterday with the StrickmaNoundation 01 pay a penny a >xed royalty for use of the filter ihvented by Robert L Strickman. The company, which ie K per cent British-owned, but Canadian-managed, sells 12 bil- lion cigarettes a year, very few of them in the United States. The agreement was the second In two days with the founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company, with annual salcs of more than 18 billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. Strickman, was surrendering its rights to the filter to the foundat'on. The university said e had "made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering a highly con- troversial end competitive com- merciall ficid." Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financlal stake in the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to a last summer by Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set dn on Wednesday by the New Jersey chemist as charitable institution -to ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has received $200,000 in advance royalties. According to Robert P Katz, the unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts cauld eventually bring in about $5 million yeartn ros'alties. Mr. Katz, a lawyer who. F secretary of Seagram's Distil- leries, PIEs that Rothman's Pall' nfall of Canada had been test- ing the. Strickman filter since lnst Auzust. Wilmnt Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman's, sald of the device: "We are sntisfied that * nothing exists "o. - which gives comparcl'e filtration without adversely affecting'the flavor of the cigarette. takes out 'mere suspect e'e ments withia the cuniext of ac- ceptable flavor, we feel that as clearette company
3 Claims Are Disputed The claim that the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ing cigarette flavor has bcen a subject of controversy. Among the most outspoken critics of the filter has beenlF Senator Warren G. Magnuson ONWashington, who has con- tended that its claims have been eatly exaggerated. NenouL many governmental and privale health reports by experts habe called cigarette tar and hicotine health hazards, Columbia Uniwarsity, in a re. port on thev Shjckman filter made public ta Wednesday, avoided making - conclu- So far no United Sat tes ciga- rette companies are believed to be close to a contract ror the filter. Experts say that domes- tic companies need not féar (competion 5 this country from the Canadien cigarettes because of a 15-cent import duty on each package. PailMallcigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana-! dian concern.
sions.
research.
N
shnuld
