CELL REGULATION, Vol. 2, 373-381, May 1991

Activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors
inhibits cell cycle progression of small cell

lung carcinoma

Carol L Williams and Vanda A. Lennon
Departments of Laboratory Medicine
and Pathology, Immunology, and Neurology
Mayo Clinic and Foundation
Rochester, Minnesota 55905

model for Buppnis the dysregulation of cell cy-
cle progression. This highly metastatic tumor
accounts for 25-30% of all lung cancers and
causes >25 000 deaths annually in the United
States (Birrer and Minna, 1989). SCLC cells ex-
press receptors for several autocrine growth
factors, including gastrin-releasing peptide
(GRP, homologous to amphibian bombesini
(Cuttitta et al., 985; Carney et al., 1987 insulin-
Nakanishi et al., 1988b), and a transferrin-like
molecule (Nakanishi et al., 1988a; Vostrejs et
erates different intracellular second messen-
gers, which must converge on a common point
In addition to receptors for peptide growth
factors, some SCLC cell lines express musca-
rinic (Sorenson et al., 1983; Cunningham et al.,
1985; Williams and Lennon, 1990a) and nicotinio
1990). The ability of ecetylcholine receptors to
al., 1989; Maneckjee and Minna, 1990). Based
uo our finding that activation of M, muscarinic
acetylcholine receptors (MAChR) causes hy-
drolysis of phosphoinositides (Id) and inhibits
voltage-gated Ca? channel activity in SCLC
cells, we proposed that MAChR activation may
affect SCLC proliferation (Williams and Lennon,
1990a). We report here that MAChR activation
inhibits DNA synthesis induced by serum, bom-
besin, insulin, or IGF-I in SCLC cells. MACHR
agonists arrest SCLC cells in both S and G,/M
phases of the cell cycle. mAChR activation ap-
different growth factors, which follows signal
transduction by growth factor receptors

We prevlousty reported that activation of musca-
rinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChR) of M, subtype
causes hydrolysis of phosphoinositides and inhibits
voltage-gated 3 channel activity in small cell lung
carcinoma (SCLC) cells. We now report that MAChR
to arrest in S and G,/M phases of the cell cycle,
concomitant with a decrease in DNA synthesis. Cell
cycle progression and DNA synthesis resume when
are down-regulated In serum-starved
SCLC cells, MAChR activation inhibits DNA synthe-
sis Induced by serum, bombesin, insulin, or insulin-
like growth factor-1. The finding that DNA synthesis
exposure of cells to growth factors indicates that
growth inhibition. Our data suggest that MAChR
activation disrupts a common event that le induced
by different growth factors and le fundamental for
In normal cells, the transition from proliferation
01 terminal differentiation is marked by with-
drawal from the cell cycle and an inability to
reenter the cycle in response to growth factors.
Transformed cells do not undergo this transi-
the regulation of cell cycle progression is dis-
rupted (Heldin and Westermark, 1984; Wein-
stein, 1987; Kraus et al., 1988). Small cell lung
carcinoma (SCLC)' provides a clinically relevant
factor-I; MAChR, muscarinic acetylcholine receptors: PBS,
phosphate-buffered saline: P1, phosphoinositides; SCLC,
e 1991 by The American Society for Cell Biology

like growth facto S

- lacau - et al., 1 1988;

activation couses exponentially growing SCLC cells al., 1988). Activation of these receptors gen-

to induce SCLC proliferation.

mAChR

de Inhibited even when mAChR are activated after acetylcholine receptors (Maneckjee and Minna,
decreased signal transduction by growth factor re- regulate cell proliferation has recently been
ceptors le not the mechanism of MACHR-mediated recognized (Conklin et al., 1988; Ashkenazi et

cell cycle progression.
Introduction

tion, but constitutively remain in the cell cycle; pears to disrupt a common event induced by

Resuits

Abbreviations: GRP, gastrin-releesing peptide; ICse. half- mAChR activation decreases DNA synthesis
maximal inhibitory concentration; IGF-I, insulin-like growth by cells growing exponentially in serum

Carbachol decreases

H-thymidine uptake by

small cell lung carcinoma.

cells cultured in serum (Figure 1). This inhibition

373