BOULDER DAILY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

Area stores

SAT

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For tha Delly Camera
nars.
kids,
kan

referring to the increased enforce-
penally ToF selling tobacco to a ml-
tried a buy the cigaretles. The

mont.

Boulder police stung 11 bust.. Store clerks unlucky enoush OF
nesses this week during a crack. getcaught were issueda summons-
doun on selling cigarettes s ml- to appoar ut court. The maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve -noris R 002s fine
of- the American Cancer Soclety's Tho Suna involved two tcams.
Great American Smokeout, was In- Each included u uniformed omcer
tended to educate cierks that it's il- a pisin clothes amcer. and two
legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School girts, Who
Police targeted gas stations, con giris' parenis signed a waiver al.
vénience, drug, grocery and dis- lowing themlatalie part the. oR
Tawhas neverbeen enforced, said Tne juvenlles were told not to
Jopmnog Folice OMicer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
"We're lerting the stores know had 19 show identification.



count swres. Unuil recently, the eration.
this is going e hoppen," ahc sald,

the cigarettes. and, If asked, they
(Gee BOULDER, Page 3C)

Boulder police sting stores
for cigarette sales to minors s
At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry
28uh SL, one of the giris asked when she WaS iestied
the cashlar for a pack of Mart mons, aus cald sho SILA stur
boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- juep. and couldn't atord tne
ness, 5 plain clothes, poons in court costs. Haukeness pot "01
Hina-hahind her to witnese thc coagole her, saying she could-
A placard near the cath regis- the Distriet Attorney to do tos 1
ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice Instradol paying
clerk asked to see some identifi- The clorka, not the store own
cation. The buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the:
she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- We don'l do it 3 -usiund
cd at the license, act it down on stores or clerks," she said. "Al:
the counter, and sold her the though, when you ce clerks ciy:
After they left, Haukeness Roulder Police targeted ST
stepped dn and identified him elorcs and clerks la ailbur four
self a3 a police offcer. Manka recelved summonses.
came in and wrote the clerk a Thic wock's operation was the:
TATIA, I bee them ask for an year. Tha first sting. conducted
E I think they're going to & in September, targeted 16 stores
ean the calc," Haukeness sald. and ST clerks received Rum

(From Page 1C)

The clerk af Colony Market,.

m-

transaction.

prububly work out a desl with-

No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ane,
driver's license, which showed court coste.

cigarettes.
summons.

ing, you inight think otherwise.
secund tobacco sale sting S4T

"But they never do."

monges,