May 16 * MAY. 91 1996
8:44
P.11
Chicago Tribune
Philip Morris, UST offer plan to curb
tobacco
teen use of
Proposal would prohibit FDA regulation, ban 'loosies' and vending machine sales
By Barbara Sullivan STAFP WAMER TRIBUNE Philip "Morris Cos. and UST inca Oaf 20 the largest 00E99I companies. went on the ollen- sive Wednesday, proposing sweeping legislation to curb teen tobacco use. The proposals, which would include a ban on vending machine and single-cigarette isales pue impose curbs on advertising. go further than restrictions sought by the Food and Drug Administration. the companies said. The quid pro quo, however, le that the FDA be prohibited from any regulation of tobacco prod- ucts. "It there's FDA involvement. the deal is not on the table," said Ellen Merio, Philip Morris USA senior vice president corvorate affairs. are not meant as a compromise. and restricting tobacco usage. this ie a solution." beneficial
3/1
au - naan
- e photo
of Steve Pamish. a Philip Morris Cos. senior vice president. at a which have not yet received would include a $250 million however. saw the tobacco pro- "They realtze that the FDA is most ser ious about protecting others. S the tobacco industry). and they SEr CIGANETTYS PACE 2
Merlo also said the proposals news conference Wednesday. or frst step toward rapproche- pany and UST is the biggest ment. with the government's maker of snuff and chewing mounting push loward regulating tobacco. The two companies. "This goes way beyond a com- support from other tobacco promise." Merlo said. "We think companies, said their proposal Merlo said further that the industry fund spent over a five proposals are so comprehensive year period to help implement that unilateral action by Philip the legisiation. Morris- and UST would not be Some antismoking advocates, "We couldn't imnplement these posals as nothing more than a actions on our own. without leg- blatant smoke screen to keep islation." she said. "If only one the FDA out of the picture. Phulip Morris. maker of Marl- kids from the blandishments (of
or OMI companies participated. there would be no impact." boro cixarettes among the worid's biggest tobacco com
