HKB2228112
SANT SAKBAR :
UUN 5

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO

l 2 Z

H M 1 -
IEPAKIME / : PAIs
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willias H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Rescarci rouridation
715 Muir Lands Visto Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. fishwan:
and Salk.

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolia rescarch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Fouuration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes
should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnrent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental
prublems is particularly irely. It will be 0! o-at potential importance for
pulling togetter wori by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation.
characieriztaion and doternination of the sienificance of hurian oncodevelopmental
antigens such as alphafetuprotein and Carcintacbryonie antigens.
One of the goals of the work in our laborators is to determine the relationship
of increased serura concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinopen
exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systors clearly derion-
strate tnet anirals exposed to hepatocarcinouens have eleva ated serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developant of mslionant timcrs. It is hoped that systertic
study of husan scra frut differest sources will determing if serurs AEN concun-
In addition, the role of envitunental factors such as hommonal influences on
the production of oncodevelopacnlai gene prplt can be further explored in
different sy: tems Such data implies thatl the brod:u tion cf Oic ocave elopmental
gene product, by turor colls is net a fixed property of a aiven tumoir but is
He look forrard to vorking with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the important subjert of oncodeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoses exposure

subject to enviroumental controls.

express ion.
Best regards.
Stewart Sel1, M.D.
Professor
SS/nb