da/n/s

JT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Nre Yerk Times Servier

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 08 New Taiwan dollars -
made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even is recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22

TAIPET The Marlboro cow- dn sales of $119 million. la 1986, trade E between the United New Tawan dollari E cents) for a
boy is his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- States and Taiwan. Wang Chien. pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghng from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly e shieng. Taiwan' - deputy minister of The limits o0 cigarette advertis
sown. His picture adoms kiocks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered a ing is Japan are more liberal. Com-
Tuxcejd-mms jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted give out Iree cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign Television
This frenetic, fast-growing 04- cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lewed in the United States in 1971.
tion of nearly 20 million people by because both Tawan and Japan school students 12, €! years oid Cigarette packages sold in Japan
amoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long- siandiog restrictions, are Dow smoking How can @ and Taiwan must carry a label that,
year and for the first time, a According to the Brown & Wil- rette companies promote cigareties roughly translated, says, "For the
rubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? Ie's O.K. to have them sake of health, don't smoke 100
made in America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" a warning much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy 915, billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting s $i billion in bew sales the United States. But those people mandaled in the United States.
Wacturers have essentially intro ln Japan, which has . population: are just like robbers. II you are A Tbe companies say Amencan
ing teen-agers 01 lake da mmoking, more than 0! perceot last year, thing 3uoin with the way they ure cigaretter are made of biended to-

and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.

panies can advertise on TV after

our this city, next to posters 2 a peroent.
er of Winston cigarettes.

"They go 01 amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

for most of the growth is American de said recentiy. "Many school- Sunmaps of cigarettes was out-

paonp cigarette advertising o the of 120 million and where people,
ialand, and tbat has created a furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year E
Oovernment officials bave accused imports have more than tripled E American
tbe American companies of entic- the past year. The market share ol
The fOremeo-edminisered dicts that il could grow to i1 8 20 salcs pitch.
operation that had monopolized percent by 1992.
pteseure from Washingion. In the alcohol
cign cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw
have soared, generating much- courage its
pealod growth for American man-
laws in way dn

human being you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan
not o much because of the adver-
manufactur- tising a because they are of better
quality and taste better. American
and bacco and have less tar than Tai-
producta their say wincse cigarettos, which ae not

cigarette
their

American cigarettes increased to 5 vigorously deny there la any-
Department of Agriculture pro thry have no plans to change
American pressure to open their have they pusbed todo so, they say.

charge the American companies
tised, altbough it does now,

botly deny.

from 3 percent S 1986, and the promoting

bleodod.

Tbey are not sllowed e advertise
de small stores where cigarettes are
a legislator. tions. Cigarette manulacturen may
to smoke, why zines, cach dl whosc droulation iel-
dom exocods 200,000.
young attractive 19-year-old piria oent of tbe market Taiwan à
Suuvon short skirts 01 give dut cis posed strict quotas on forcign
and then it becomes a habit. It'i cigarettes and imposed rtint tariffs.

thye cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials say tbey resent o0 television or in newspapers. Nor
The government agreed to allow markets o producta that éndanger Tbey can advertise only through
otbers into tbe business ouly under people's health, like cigarettes and posters hung near cigarette racks or
year since stiff restrictions on for- "This really burts our feelings, . sold, a well as through promo-
a American cigarettes la Taiwan /. ibe United Shau-kong Sustes docs not en- also place 120 ada a year in maga-
the Unilad States are way down and femaics are smoking a lot be Before last yoar, forcign ciga-
and tbe number of anti-smoking causc of American ada. E hire rettos accounted for leas than - per-
According 01 U.S. Depart- arettes (ree in nightclube. k's vory cigarettes, banaed imports at the
asbet of Agriculture, people B Tai- difficult lor Sunok boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets liceraed to sell

poople

wacturen at - time when sales in export to LUVANL Younger pcople

the

immoral."

Ass reeult, imporied cigarettes cost