Cercinogenesis vel 15 nu 13 re a 27:5 1924
arcinogens met
chemopreventive agents

ung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke
benzo(alpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of

osan

and

C3 420

Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin
Amencan Heaith Foundation. Valhalta NY 10595. USA
by 4-methylnltresamino)

models examined o1 date (2). BaP ie a prototype of the class
of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco
smoke 1) We have chosen the A/l mouse because previous

The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce
model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced
lung cancer In smokers. Lung tumor induction in A/I mice rapidly and can be readily quantinied and their progression to
and benzotalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated.
individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice CI evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg
were treated by either intragastric gavage (i-g-) or by has examined the chemogreventive activities of a number of
intraperitoneal injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP,
and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed dieshylnitrosamine and - dimetbyfbeadidlaahraceme (9.10).
either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the AJJ mouse ol evaluate the effects of
forestomach were counted. The i.g. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK
proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4,1 1,12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse can be replicated
because iN avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems. For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate
the Injection site and nssociated mortality A dose - response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung tumnor induction by
relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 rat (11,13).
mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single
treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect to tobacco
of 24 umol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (I). The
have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important
Comparisons of NNK and BaP given individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (11
when giv en by the i.g. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either
wcre complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP
The most favorahle dosing reginien of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to
evaluntion of chemnopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during
dose of 24 umol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition. the mode! should be relatively rapid and
subdoses i.g, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we exomined tumor yields obtained
dosing. This regimen induced 10.5 :4.4 lung adenomas upon ureatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for
mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen. 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61
ethyl isothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure (I This tumor model was employed in a
and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC
tumor formation. reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP
efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. lts purity was established 44 HPLC as >997. BaP (93 purity),
Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were
could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirt containing sA eomn oil. as prev iously 2
play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups cf 15 as sammarized ia Table I At age 7 weeks. each mouse was
kers: (methylnitrosamino, 3-pyridyl). 1-butanone (NNK') treated s inraperitoneal (ip) injection or by intragastric gavage lig) wid
and benzolalpyrene (BaP) € NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical le 0.I ml cononseed ol. NNK and BaP were bott
carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung de all rodent dissolved in the 01 ml uned for treatment Injections and gavages were carrin
Abbreslations: NNK. 4-(methy! Initrosamino) pyeldy! -butunone, individuat dese was one-cighth of the total. Equimolar doues ef NNK - a
BoP. benzolejpyrene: PEITC, pheneihyl iscthiocya anale: BITC, benayl BaP were used in most of the combination growps, because the amounts of

ridyl)- -butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined

whlch these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given

The A/J mouse lung tumor mode! has been used extensively

of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the
that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK

Most previous studies in the A/ mouse have examined
We sought 01 develop a model which could be used to

5.9 a 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely
this study provide a convenlent model for assessing the
inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.

inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods

NNK was synthesized in the American Health Foundation Organic Synthesis
BITC 861 purity) and PEITC (936 (Aund were obtained from the Aldrich
Chemical Cempany (Milwaukce. Wij. Cottonseed oll wat purchased from
Female AJJ mice, age 3 weeks, were obtoined from The Jackson Sovtoge
(Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the
The design of the bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1. The mice were divided
out for & consecutive weeks. The toral doses are given - Tuble L Fas
NNK and total carcinogenie polycyelie hydrocarbons in sohacco smoke are

Sigma Chemical Co. (S1 Louis, MO).
described (4).

introduction
to

agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought

isothios raie J intraperitoncal, : introgasrie gavage.

o Oaford Unvenity Press

2721