LOS ANGPLES TI:ES
Los Angoles, Californin
October 20, 1954
n
been proved,

hairil upon the premire that hination n' a partirular tvpe
naneetien hetwieen riea- in each nf the three categnries
rer smoking and disease 2 has alrcady produred 'a sale
Might Take Six Monthe one it is. so all can be made
Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. 11 not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Carrnce Cook Littie,
complete statistical study to chairman of the sciertific ad-
date, said that "some sav we vianry board and seientfie di-
tive evidence before develop- try Resrarch (ommittee, de-
ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves wnnld
nne hae said just what the de- produre some nf "the defni
finitive evidence wnuid be." live evidence" io waich Dr
Hr sand ha "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In his talk in the Ameriran "We wiil tackle simultam-
system was more important, line of the industry's researeh
migh: prove surceasfal in xix do not have today the experi
months, with itek," he said menta! evidenrr that wi'l per-

cigarette 10 sO. seientifie re-
search should prove which
should And one, "since peo-
ple like to smoke cigarettes."
rector o: the Tobarro
seribed the outlines nf stud-
Tackle U'nknawns

Calls
Safe
Cigaretfes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming
NEW YORK. Ort. 19 (LP)

Expert
for

lale I'niversity sratistician

should

wait for more defini

Indus-

this viewnoint,

The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eously manv of the unknowne
arette smoking with bath Hammond xaid the relation- in this feld of tobaccn use in
lung cancer and heurt dis- ship nf rigarette smoking to relation to tumin health, à he
ease is "overwhelming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out-
something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. We seek definitive
onee about developing "a safe health, than the relationship findings in an area where
cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to much suggestive work has
cal scientist told the annual find a safe cigarette" from heen done. The program nf
meeting cf the American the viewpoint ef the heart the bnard recngnizes tha: rr
Tobacco Industry Research inbacen, there are varinus relationshin hetwren rr1 rone
Committer ansounced some of types nf filters, and there are mental factors, inclnd lins
the details nf SER sricatific re- varioux terhn'ques n! euring The most

Cancer Society today.
At the xame time the scien-
tife advisory board of the
srarch program

Outlines Described
There are various types nf
which i tobaren, he Raid, and it may

mit scientifie eonclesions PA
gardinz the raure and rfert
snoking and lune eancer
important nrnceet
current lung cancer rase: in
10 medical centers in the :ni
ed States and Canada,

he thar some fortustonis rom- Fet up was a diree: scudy 3

901 ANGE Las EXAMINER
los Ange: les, California
October 20, 1954

It will inelude numerous
studles of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers,
as well as tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspeets
of the research were disclosed
today. The specitio research
grants, financed by the TIRC,
will be announced later.

HFAITH

ON TOBACCO
YORK, Oct. 19-P
A bread atx-point study seek
ing imowledge whether eigareta
or other forms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health haz.
ards was announced today.
It is the first announcement
of a big research program
headed by the sclentifie ad-
visory board of the Tobacco In.
dustry Rese areh Committer

NEW

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062