WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRISUNE
D. 25,605
S. 49,326
WACO MSTEOPOLITAN AREA
MAR S 1963

FC Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard-- -Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission from going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, It
does not scem right or logical that one medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer while
newspapers, maguzines, billboards and c ounter
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress ie expectod to review the FCC proposal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
Junp 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
warning "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC sald it is proposing to refuse licenses
to broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising
because of evidence that dugyours is injurioun to hcalth
and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public
intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals to do
es they please so long as thcy doa't harm another.
It also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that if you don't mention something, maybe e won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democret, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com-
merce Com.mittce, said in reference to the proposed
FCC rule that the Kountlu had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has
any right to tell an advertiser what he could not
say in his advertisements. Rogers said Congress will
take a close Icol: at the whole question of regulations
on television and radio advortising content, not only
as 01 the Federal Communicatints Commission but
in regard to Fcderal Trado Commnission practices as
The stakes involved extend beyond the business
of broadcasling. They 05 to the heart of whe:her
government burcaus should he allowed to o2 beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Health.

hurt you and will disappear.

well.


tho linits of due proccss and the law.