Genetic Epidemiology 5-265.274 (1988)
Estimating Genetic Parameters of Survival Distributions: A Multifactorial Model
Joanne M. Meyer and Lindon J. Eaves
Department of Human Genetics, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond For a number of genetically influenced illnesses. age of onset la correlated between relatives. In some cases, age of onset also serves as an index of an individual's inheritedi liabiliry to an illness. Typically, survival models for age of onset distri- butions do not allow for these effects. We have used the gamma distribution as the basis of a model which specifies genetic variabiliry in age of onset. Specifically, we allow the hazard frequency parameser of the gamma distribution to be a monotonic function of an individual's inherited liabiliry o an illness. Simulations under various gamma models indicate that age of onset correlations may be strikingly different from correlations in liability. Maximum likelihood estimation procedures were used 1o obtain parameter estimates from simulated data sets and 8 determine whether i ia possible lo discriminate between gamma processes of different order. The results for 1,000 pairs of twins (500 monozygotie and 500 dirygotic) gave parameter estimates that were fairly accurate but that decreased in precision as the order of the ewruns process increased. We discuss the effect this may have on inferences made about age of onset. Key words: age of onset correlations, survival models, gamma distributien
roimte
INTRODUCTION
Genetic analyses of illnesses and behaviors showing a variable age of onset require a knowledge of the cumularive probability of onset by given ages. Some approachés (Weinberg, 1915; Stromgren, 1938; Risch, 1983) derive this probability from prior age of onset distributions. Others [Elston, 1973: Heimbuch et al., 1980; Risch, 1983) estimate parameters of a cumulative age of onset distribution from the data. When the data allow its use, the latter method de more appealing since specific
Reccived for publication January 11, 1988: revision accepied April22, 1988.
Address reprint request 10 Joanne Meyer, Department of Human Genetics, Box 33 Medieal College of
Virginis, Richmand. VA 23298. e 1988 Alan R. Liss, Inc.
