PRCBMARFROUNCOPERO
August 18, 2000
ViaFacsimile and Overnight Mail
Re: Indreendsat-Auditor's Notice ofIntent to Issue 3" Revised Final Calculations for the Tobacco Litigation Master Settlement Agreement Subsection VIO)Account (Subsequent). Payments Due March 31. 2000 and Subsection IX(eXI)Account
Payments Due April 5. 2000- NOTICE ID: 0033
Dear Notice Party:
PricowaterhouscCooper LLP, in its capacity as Independent Auditor to the Tobacco Litigation Master Settlement Agreement ("MSA") - provides the following notice to indicate the Independent Auditor' ' intent to issue revised detailed calculations of amounts to be paid into the Subsection VI(c) Escrow Account (Subsequent) and the Subsection IX(cX1) Escrow Account ("3" Revised Final VI(c) Calculation" and puts Revined Final IX(c)(1) Calculation,' respectively). All capitalized terms used in this notice, unless otherwise defined herein, shall be defined as in the MSA The information contained in this notice is considered confidential and should not be used In light of several data-related issues raised in dispute letters authored Aq the National Association of Attomeys General ("NAAG") and one of the Participating Manufacturers, as well as newly provided data Aq one of the Original Participating Manufacturers this weck, the Independent Auditor believes that the issuance of a nE Revised Final VI(c) Calculation and a pf Revised Final IX(cX1) Calculation is necessary. It is anticipated that these calculations would be issued on Friday, August 25, 2000. In regards to payments made by those Participating Manufacturers having payment obligations resulting from the 2" Revised Final Calculations iasued July 31, 2000, the Independent Auditor intends to withhold instructions to the Escrow Agent for disbursement of deposited funds to the Settling States until any additional payments required by the pE Revised Final VI(c) Calculation and 3" Revised Final IX(cX1) Calculation are made. Over and underpayments will be treated in the manner sct forth in subsection (DIX of the Finally, with respect S the issue of dispute deadlines raised by NAAG, the Independent Auditor believes that subsection XI(I)(1)(A) of the MSA requires related payments to be made - .not more than 20 days after receipt of the notice... 98 and disputes to be made : ...not more than 15 days after receipt of such notice.. : Therefore, as previously stated, the Independent Auditor anticipates issuing the 3" Revised Final VI(c) Calculation and a Revised Final EX(c)(1) Calculation on Friday, August 25, 2000. Notices of dispute(s) related to these calculations would then be due September 8, 2000 (as September 9, 2000 falls on a weekend). Payments, if any, would be due September 14, 2000 and disbursement of those funds to the Settling States, as well as the funds deposited by Participating Manufacturers is response to the July 31, 2000
for any purpose other than as contemplated in the MSA
MSA
calculations, would occur September 15, 2000.
:
Notice ID 0033
