LOS ANGELES TI-ES
Los Angeles, California
October 20, 1954
n been proved,
lale
l'niversity

haut uudn the premine that hination ' a partirular type
a inaneetinn hetween riea- in each ofthe raree rategories
Calls Tri : smokine and disease ha: has alrcady produred 'a sale
Might Take Six Months one it is, so all can be made
Dr. a Cuyler Hammond, that way. If not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Carence Cook Litte,
complete statistica! study to chairman of the scientife art-
date. said that "some say we visnry bnard and seient fie di
should wait for more defini rector o: the Toisarr Indus.
tive evidence before develop- try Research Committee. de-
ing a sale cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would
nne haksaid just what the de- produre some nl "the defni
finitive evidenre www be." iive evidenre" : which Dr
He sand he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In his Talk 1n the Ameriran "We wiil larkle simultan
system was more important, line of the industrv's research
migh: prove surcessfal in six do not havr today 1he experi
months, "wirh iuck," he said menta! evidenre that wilpr-

cigarette JI so. scientific re-
search should prove which
should find one, "since
ple like to smoke cigarettes."
seribed the outlines ni sind-
Tackle Unknewns

Expert
for

atatistician

peo-

Safe
Cigarettes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming

NEW YORK, Ort, 61 (ILP) thia virwnoint.

The evidenre connecting cig- Cancer Sneiety meeting. Dr. eously many of the unknowns
arette smoking with both Hammond said the relation in this feld of tobaccn 11se in
lung cancer and heart dis. ship nl rigarette smoking to relation to human health," he
ease is "overwhelming" and the heart and the vascular said in announcing the out-
something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitye
once about developing "a safe health, than the relationship Andings in an area where
cigarette, : a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to murh suggestive work has
cal scientist told the annual find "a safe cigarette" from been done. The program of
meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recognizes that we
tific advisory board of the There are varinus types of garding the raune and efert
Tobacco Industry Research tohacen, there are varinus relationshin hetween rry ron-
Committec anancenced some of types a. filters, and there are mental factors, including
the details nt :ts sricatific re- varinua sonti.utul n! euring The most important

Cancer Society today.
At the same time the scien-

Outlines Described

mit scientific conclusions PA.
smokine and lune eancer
current lung cancer rase: in
10 medical centers in the :ni
ed States and Canada

srarch
program

which tobaren, he said, and it may

nrocet

is he that some fortuitans rom- aet up was a dirert xaady . nf

LOS ANGE L2S EXAMINER
los Angeles, California
October 20, 1954

It will inelude numerous
studies of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers.
an well as tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. The apecitio research
grants, financed Aq the TIRC,
will be announced later.

HEALTHSTUDY
ON TOBACCO
NEW YORK. Oct. 19.-UPH-
A broad abx point study seek
Ing knowledge whether eigarets
or other forms of tobaceo cause
lung cancer or other health baz.
ards was announced today.
It la the first announcement
of a big research proxram
headed by the sclentifle ad-
visory board of the Tobaceo In
dustry Research Committee

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062