14A-Contra Costa Times
Sunday, October 6, 1991
EDITORIALS
à conter
Curbing tobacco use Patchwork of local laws spread public call for govemment action? no way to fight smoking writing their own smoking rules is that o we really need a patchwork of For example, Wainut Creek will ban, county and city anti-smoking or- smoking in restaurants as of May "I that dinances like the ones adopted by means peopie who like to smoke while the Contra Costa and Alameda County dining will simply go to the next town to Certainly, evidence of the many dan- not comply with the current rule, which gers of smoking is overwhelming. Tobac- requires restaurants to reduce smoking CO is the leading preventable cause of sections to 25 percent or less of avallable death, killing more Americans than all seating. How many more will close when other drugs, AIDS, murder, suicide and smoking is banned altogether? threat to fetuses and a significant con- less restrictive. But it still creates rules in tributor to a host of diseases. Even sec- unincorporated areas of the county that ond-hand smoke threatens non-smokers. treat businesses differently trom those in But as evidence about the threat of most of the cities and towns. smoking mounts. there has been a corre- To.their credit, both Contra Costa and sponding increase in public and private Alameda counties have taken aim at reaction against tobacco, making govern- vending machines, banning them in ar- The fact a that fewer and fewer peo- county has made allowances.forma ple are smoking or putting dn with smok- chines using technology thatean prevent ers. Businesses have responded by creat- them from being operated ig minors. ing separate smoking sections in offices, Efforts to prevent children-from.buy Many private businesses have banned officials should better accommodate the smoking in work areas. Smoking bans latest technology and thereby lessen haye long been in place in theaters, ele- the financial impact on vendors. And the trend is to further restrict and non-smoking diners. There is no rea- smoking 5 areas open 8 the public 00 son for local governments 8 interfere Businesses are well aware of the public working against smoking.
The problem with cities and counties they create inequities and confusion. eat. Already, one restaurant in that city has been forced to close because it could 1
supervisors and the city of Walnut
Creek?
car accidents combined. It also la a
The new Contra Costa ordinance is
ment intervention Jess urgent. restaurants and other public areas. vators, auditoriums and other en- protect people from tobacco smoke. concern about second-hand smoke and have acted accordingly.
eas accessible 00 minors. But neither ing cigarettes are admirable. Butj public Also, smoking ordinances should al- low restaurants to cater to both smoking with market forces that already are Statewide smoking laws that accom- modate legitimate interests of business-
closed places.
Why, then, should county and city a treat everyone on an equal basis and governments feel obligated to compose protect people from unwarted second- restrictive smoking ordinances of their hand smoke make far more sense than a own, particularty when there is no wide- patchwork quilt of local ordinances.
