WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRIBUNE D. 25,605 a S. 49,326 WACO METROPOLITAN AREA MAR 6 636!
F.C Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard-- Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission frora going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it does not scem right or logical that onc medium of advertising be forbidden the producer while displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires June 1, that requires cigaretto packages carry the warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC said 11 is proposir.g to refuse licenses to broadcasters who carry cigarette adverlising becauso of evidence that smoking is injurious to hcalth and thc FCC has an obligation 10 protect the public interost. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals to do as they please so long as lhey doa't harm another. Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if you don't mention something, maybe is won't Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democrat, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Coni- merce Commitice, snid in reference to the proposed FCC rulc that the ngency had overstepped the bounds of its nuthority. lle said he doubts that FCC has any right 0) tell an advertiser what he could not say in his advertisements, Rogers said Congress will take a close Icok at the whole question of regulutions on television and radio advertising content. not only as 0) the Federal Communications Commission but in regard to Federal "Trade Commission practices as The stakes involved extend beyond the business of broadcasling. They 08 to the heart of whe:her governmeat burcaus should be allowcd to oa beyond
advertising. -
billboards and counter
: newspapers, magazines,
Hazardous to Your Heulth.'
hurt you and will disappear.
well. :
tho limits of due proccss and the Jaw,
