BOULDER DAILY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

A

Areal stores

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For tha Delly Camera
*
kids.
kar

refercing to the Increased enforce-
penalty lur selling tobacco vor ml
tried 01 Anq. tlie cigarelles. The

mont.

Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky enough. OF
_nesses this week duning a crack. get'caught were issueda Lsummone-
doun on selling cigarettes to mt to appoar a court. The maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve horis H rs200 fine.
of- the American Cancer Soclety's The Suna involved two tcams.
Great American Smokeout, was -"I Each included u uniformed 'omcer.
tended to educate clerks that it's -I a plain clothes omcer. and two
legal a sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School girts, Who
Police targeted gas stations, con: girls' parenis signed a waiver al.
vênience, drug, grocery and "ep lowing themlo take partin thc.op:
- "law has never been enforced, pjes The Juvenlles were told not to
JOPInOAL Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk or sell
"We're letting the stores know had to show identification.

"Court stores. Until recently, the eratlon.
this le going to happen," ahc sald,

the cigarettes. and, If asked, they
(Sce DOULDER, Page 3C)

Boulder police sting stores
for cigarette sales to minors
At the Conoco atation, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry,
280h SL, one of the girls asked when she Was istied a Sum-,
the cashler for a pack of Mart mons. ous cald Ohg was > stur
boro Lights. O#icer Rob Hauke- JUAP. and couldnt atord au
ness, S plain dothes, po013 ul court costs. HAlikeness pou) %
-tha-hehind her to witness thç concore "har, saying she coulu.
A placard near the cash regis- the Distriet Attomey to do com, .
ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity acrvice Inatcad of paying
clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clerks, not the store own-
cation. The buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the.:
she WAS only "ZI Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it 03 punishi.
ed at the license, set it down on stores or clerks," she said. "Al-:
the counter, and sold her the though, when you Bee clerks cry:
Afier they left, Haukeness Boulder Polica targeted :
stepped dn and identified him oloros and clerks e all but -
eelf as a police officer. Manka recelved summonses.
came In and wrote the clerk A Thic wock'a operation was
"When I see them ask for an year. Tha Arst sting, conduoted.
E I think they're going to 2 ur September, targeted 16 stores:
fuse the cale," Haukeness sald. und 15 clerks received sum

(From Page (JT

The clerk at Colony Market,

transaction.

Atquqaid work out a deal-with-

No 'ar No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, /
drlver's license, which showed court costs.

"
-

cigarettes.
summons.

ing, you might think otherwise,
secund tobacco sale stine E the:

"But they never do."

monses.