DALLAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Texas April 14, 1954
Tobacco Firms Ask New Cancer Studies NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing Industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers. growers and tobacca tional" statements linkdng smoking Among those quoted by the çom- and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer alded picture of the relationship of Institute of the United States Gov- cigarettes and bealth and called port ernment, that the which said & a 1953 k for exhaustive research to estab- had not been cause established. of lung Several cancer lish the basic cause of the disease. ot the institute's scientists also committee issued a booklet con- Runyon Others quoted were the Damon published state- more research, and ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgoon Dr. Max Chicago à itles doubting or denying claims said a few sensitive Cutler, who by other cancer experts that tobac- develop lung cancer persons because may The earliest, whitten in 1923, sald conclusion of a direct there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientitic relationahip and none that would produce turnors. hazardous." The most recent, dated last March F smoke in the lungs were "9r said much more research must sure-fire cause of be done before causes of lung can- have had it long ago," canoer, 1 the we'd all cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratory, Bar Har- S January to combat mounting bor, Maine. charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited dn of nearly every. major elgarette University of Texas experts School of Medi- nanufacturer and organizations eine, the Metropolitan Life Insur
The tobacco industry research were cited.
taining previously 8 causes lung cancer.
Fund, which called for ot smoking but that partly to accept the
à
a at the
can be established.
director of the Roscoe B. Jackson Little, ance Company and British author- ities. Neariy all those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until 'an absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report was described by an terim" industry spokesman as an "in- statement, pending an- nouncement of the choice of a basic prominent scientist to supervise nanced cancer research 8 be f- Aq the industry. That scien tist will decide how the industry's cancer-research money is to be spent. No date has been set for his At the last count, the committee said; there were more than 850 cancer research grants in the United States alone, "any one of unlock which might produce evidence to the secrets of lung cancer," 14
selection.
)
