Mutations in signal transduction pathways

and inherited diseases
Paolo Sassone-Cors and Emiliana Borrelli

NOTICE:

PROTECISC THISMATERIAL MAY BE
DEYCOPYRIGHT LAW
TITLE17US CODF

CNRS-INSERM, Strasbourg France

Intracellular signal transduction pathways have central roles in processes
such as growth, differentiation, neurotransmission and development. The
aberrant expression of components of various signal transduction pathways
has profound consequences for cellular functions. Recent findings indicate
that many cases of neoplasia and inherited diseases have, at their roots,
mutations in key steps of signalling pathways.
Current Opinion in Cenetics and Development 1992, 2:455-458

Introduction

Troubles in the nucleus

A prerequisite for normal cell growth and differentiation
la that 8 cell must be able to receive, interpret and re-

In the nucleus, many transcription factors E as AP-1
(7-), NF-xB (8], CREM (-6] and SRF (10) have been iden-

spond appropriately 01 signals sent both from other cells tified as the final targets of signal transduction pathways.
and from their environment. The plasma membrane is Some of them are constituted by oncoproteins, like Fos
the extemal interface of the cell that bears many elements and Jun for AP-1 "(.2] and Rel for NF-XB (11). Yet other
required for the primary analysis of such signals. Among oncogenic products have been found to have important
interact specifically with a variety of compounds. Binding of Myc, Myb and ErbA 199 Correct transcription initia-
ofa ligand to its receptor initiates a cascade of events that tion relies upon cooperation between these various fac-
trol lof gene expression. By altering the spectrum of genes the regulatory activity of nuclear oncoproteins have been
expressed, the cell appropriately adapts its physiology OI found 01 respond to various signalling systems (14*,15),
a given stimulus. Aberrations 5 this process can lead to and as such PInoo be considered as transcriptional anti-
nesis. Two major signal transduction pathways, which A striking example of how inherited diseases and neo
use cyclic adenosine monophosphate (CAMP) and dia- plasia can be associated with a specific transcription fac-
cylglycerol (DAG) as secondary messengers, exist (1,23). tor defect concems the disease Wilm's tumour (16-1. In
Each pathway is characterized by its specific protein ki- the USA, among children under 16 years of there
nase, protein kinase < (PKA) and protein kinase C (PKC), are 350 new cases of Wilms' tumour diagnosed age, every
respectively, although a large number of kinases has been year. Congenital abnormalities associated with Wilms'
membrane receptors and cytoplasmic and nuclear com- of the genitalia and neurofibromatosis (NF). The mode
ponents are responsible for the fine modulation of gene of inheritance is autosomal dominant with variable pen-
expression [5-). Significantly, oncogenic products 8 etrance (17). In the past, this kind of neoplasia has been
cupy pivotal positions in all the pathways of intracellular explained by a 'two-hit' mutation model, in which the
for cellular physiology and metabolism. The past year has is located at the Wilms' tumour locus (11p13), has been
I many important advances in our understanding of cloned and characterized. It is postulated to be a tumour

these elements are membrane receptors that are able to functions at the level of

regulation, as in the cases

modulate a variety of cellular functions including the con-

tors (13-). In "uoppe proteins that negatively modulate

deregulated cell proliferation and ultimately tumourige oncogenes.

identifed to date [4). A myriad of interactions between
signalling (6-), graphically demonstrating that aberrations
in transducing systems can have dramatic consequences
the links between defective signal transduction and dis-
ease. In this review we will focus on some key examples
that represent paradigms of this phenomenon.

tumour include aniridia, hemihypertrophy, malformation
loss of a functional gene product resulted from muta-
tion at homologous loci. Recently the wtl gene, which
suppressor gene and encodes a nuclear protein that in-
teracts with specific DNA promoter clements by means
of a zinc finger-containg domain (16-). The Wilms'

Abbreviations

CAMP cyclic adenosine monophosphate, CE-cystic fibrosis: CFTR-CF transmembrane regulator,
CRE-compresponsive elements, DAG-dacylglycerot GAN-CIPactivating protein, G-protein- GTP-binding protein;
N-neurofibromatosis, PKA- protein kinase A; PKC-protein kinase U WT-Wilms tumour.

Current Biology Lid ISSN 0959-437X

455

2031367951