May 16 96. 8:44
P.11
Chicago Tribune
MAY 91 9661
Philip Morris, UST offer plan to curb teen use of tobacco Proposal would prohibit FDA regulation,
'loosies : ban By Barbara Sulliva TRIBUNE STAFF Wame Philip Morris Cos. and UST h GA) ol the largest tobacco counpantes. went on the ollen- sive Wednesday, proposing sweeping legislation to curb teen tobacco use. The proposals, which would include a ban on vending machine and pnozus1-opputs isales and impose curbs on a advertising. go further than restrictions sought by the Food and Drug Administration, the companies said. The quid pro quo, however. is that the vaa be prohibited from any regulation of tobacco prod- ucis. "It there's FDA involvement. the deal is not on the table," corporate affairs. are not meant as a compromise. and restricting tobacco usage. this in a solution." beneficial
machine salès
and vending 3/1
Nrult Mnant
s peoto
said Ellen Merlo, Philip Morris "Steve Parrish. a Philip Morris USA senior vice president of Cos. senior vice president. at a Merlo also said the proposals news conference Wednesday. or first step toward rapproche- pany and UST is the biggest ment, with the government's maker of snuff and chewing mounting push toward regulating tobacco. The two companies. "This way beyond a cum- support from other tobacca promise." gome Merlo said. "We think companies, said their proposal Merlo said further that the industry fund spent over a five- proposals are so comprehensive year period to help implement that unilateral action Aq Philip the legislation. Morris- and UST would not be Some antismoking advocates, "We couldn't inplement these posals as nothing more than a actions on our own. withoirt leg. blatant smoke screen to keep islation." she said. "tr only one the FDA out of the picture. or OMI companies participated. "They cealtze that the FDA is Phuip Morris. maker of Marl: kids from the blandishments (of boro cigarettes anong others. L the tobacco industry) and they
which have not yet received would include a $250 million however. saw the tobacco pro- most serious about protecting SEE CIGANETTTS PAUE 2
there would be no impact." the world's biggest tobacco com
