*

SYMPTOMS AND THE LNEINOEILANCTOMDIA IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43

5 a cross-sectional investigation in one building, office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validased
complaints associaied with the "sick building syndrome" questionnaire. The symptoms were more common . build-
were measured on e linear analog I questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and
Ar the same time. the micro-environment (environmental humidifcation. imespective of the * of the I A
characteristics in the breathing zone I I area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air
samples) I characterized iq measung temperere, Arrenb parameters : not described. Skov et a (1967) ex-
relacive humidiry, respirable popuadms 'sampund B pour indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern Danish
bon dioxide, noise level, lighting insensiry, relative ku town halb and 14 older control buildings. A level ol 1
midiry, and airflow. No relationship I seen benween toms was related os "Aeecing" factor (carpets, upholstery.
de degree of sympioms and age, I or duration and horizontal surfaces) sad the "macro-molecular I
of employment at the building or time nads in shr 1 I of dust. They also demonstrated - relationship between
fhr on a daily I Statistically, complaine were the pumber of houn spent photocopying and using carbonless
significantly more frequent I Sunvous I Envi- Adoo paper and tbe level of complaints. Other studies have
ronmental characteristics associaied wish * increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985)
complaint levels in this group included decressed airfow I psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) cootribute
models, there I an association benween angauds as- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome b mea-
pended particulates and the levels of boch mucous I suring mosdu and environmental exposures. Robertaon et
brane pun sysemic complaints. Sanisfaction 1 d F (1985) were unabke to demonstrate any measurable dif.
I environment as predicted woudauad ofdnet ferences in the concentrations of eaviroamental
although regression models E I E compl : building. E studied the rooms with the f compl

:

velociry and increased levels proundralo apdpopusis 8 indoor air quality complaints.

riculases I dry-bulb semperature. In regression

Several studies have attempted 8 identify the actual

k nor

I
ventileted
naturally
again

clearty contribute or the
I I independent of thermal I H
inaensiry I also associated I
mudies of de sick building syndrome
L meases or identify predictors of complaints in

of symptoms, berween rooms in a mechanically and a

I
LE

I - used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did I
unere strate a relationship between symptoms and I area mm
I ples measuring dust E a "macro-molecular" traction,
Area samples in buildings E not be representative of
a exposures la different points le single I Physical
characteristics such as windows and partitions, I
and shelving may infuence air currents. Radian I may

mulale exposures simultaneously and include prycho B I I

indoor spaces.
INTRODUCTION

Complaints termed the "sick building syndrome" I lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally. I pol
led 6 numerous investigations in a last is years. They are hutants resuh from point sources, or they will be diluted as -
thought oi occur primarily . newty constructed I 1 subject . farther removed from the source. The micro 4
inp and, at kast . the past, were thought to be a to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelen. a different exposure characteristics than tbe macro-enviroe
1 variety of causes have been identibed in specife settings. ment of a building la addition. all applied occupational and
inctuding inadequate temperature and relative bumidity 8 environmental bealth research that attempes 01 relate I so
trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatike organic compounds beakb effects suffers from the problem E I is penerally
and formaldebyde. microorpanisms, enviroamental sobecco measured at several points in time and then extrapolated lo C
smoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicle I 8 allow developmem of exposure classifications I decades
spent E contaminated air and boiler I Sbers released I most heakh effects are mcaured as a single I ol
from - linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures. Where the variability of I
A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnepan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom
et a 1984) 1 that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to hour. such a stratery mast fail.
(Robertson et al. 1985) was unable os identify difierences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the micro
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (temper- envirooment and set these characteristics in relation a a
ature), relative humidity. air velocity. formaldehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at . given point in time. This
itive or nepative ions between several rooms in a building report preseats results ol a crom-sectional investigation ol a
with natural and - building with mechanical ventilation. problem building using - self-administered, I analog.
where both a of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
E I a Amistant Professor of Medicine and ol Industrial and Environmental Heakh Scaences at the Univeruty ol I Schoots
of Medicine and Publec Heahh. a f a Director. Environmental Heah and Salery, Camepe-Mellon Univeruty, Pitturgh. PA.

(Kreiss and Hodpson 1984; Hodpson 3 Kreiss 1986).
marily os mechanical ventilation. A same proup ol authors

results is preater than the difference in average samples, and
No investigations in the peer-reviewed litersture I

to

PAciceri inpryc/s Susia