NEW-YORK POST, FRIDAY, MAY- "ZI "9601 LL
NEWYORKPOST
Aurrana older rontacommuy pubrished alsity mespuper

Anti-smoking skulduggery
health au about to testify on behalf of the umenta. enterod Perhaps the not. But unless he has
that he is secretly receiving a salary from liams why Seruggs pmom provide Wil
tobacco lawyers. It also emerges that the Moreover, with such substantial "loans."
scarcher a house and have co-signed two interpret LAmps.surum-
car loans for him. In his defense, the 8 This is not the first time Scruggs has
entist insists that, except for the salary, been involved with a subsidized whistle-
Question: How would the media likely Brown & Williamson executive Jeffray
react? A huge brouhaha to say the latter's Wigand. CBS Newe promised to the
The scientist's research, whatever its Williamson pons Wigand for breaching
actual merits, would be buried under a his contract's confidentiality clause dur
mudslide of derision. The tobacco indus- ing a widely reported appearance on "60
ES grounds for attempting to buy a wit- CBS lawyers, fearing that the offer to
Now let's change a few details. Say the preted as an inducement 8 break the
scientist is a janogopsy who asserts contract, initially scotched the
that the tobacco industry is Army aware After the substance of Wigand's segment.
that cigarette smoking is lethal and has hit the newspapers, his interview charges was
worked to conceal this fact for decades. eventually paure
The lawyers providing the salary and Meanwhile, the anti-tobacco forces also
"loans, rather than working for the to- suffered an embarrasament when a for-
bacco industry, are in fact spearheading mer Philip Morris employee recanted tes-
There you have autrante chain of events that. Drug Administration (FDA)
actually unfolded recently in a Louisville, Jerome Rivers, a former
Ky., courtroom. Yet the near-silence sur- supervisor for the conglomerate, manufacturing with-
rounding the incident has been deafen- drew his claim that Philip Morris rou-
inga Today, one of the few papers to els. (The FDA hoped to use this
Merrell run the story on Page One, reported that "evidence" to justify regulating tobacco a I
Williams, a former paralegal for a drug.)
a law firm representing Brown 38 Wil- Critics incessantly
liamson Tobacoo Corp., received a industry ns amoral, portray even tobacco ita
$109,000 mortgage puni other financial "crime" consists in selling a though
rewards. Williams had made internal uct that millions of Americans legal prod-
corporate documents available to attor- After these shenanigans, it is clear enjoy. that
Scruggs one of was the tobacco lawyer Richard some of tobacco's foes would do well se

Imagine this spenario: A scientist who
claims to have discovered that cigarette leading Seruggs opponents. insists he
smoking poses no danger 8. human
tobacco industry. Suddenly it's revealed clear
same lawyers have bought the E

didn'buy" any doc-
banking business, it is un-
how are. reasonable people to
blower: He also represented former
legal fees in the event base &
pay Wigand's legal costa could be inter-

it's all just a loan.
least.
ness.

would be roundly condemned on ethi- Minutes."

the campaign

it.

timony he had given to the Food and
tinely measures and adjusts nicotine lev-

the

neys His suing benefactor the tobacco companies.

when the subject of ethics comes
industry's take a careful look in the mirror.