HKB2228112 AANTABANMA SAN14.
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
: 114. 1 SI : ASILI -Alte: F astal : 1451KAV NA
1ANIE MILOENA :
MIDH n VINNINI FEPARINI : : rannus January 3, 1977 Dr. Willian H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Research rourdation 715 Muir Lands Vista Hay La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. Fishman: and Salk.
We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of the La Jolia rescarch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla Cancer Resezrch Founcation and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzynes should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establisment of a focal center for rcsearch proorams on ontodevelopmental prublems is particularly inely. It will be o! grat potential importance for pulling togetter work, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, characteriztaion and doterniriation of the significance of huran oncodevelopmental antigens such as alphafeteprotein and carcinost.bryonic antigens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship of increased seruea concentrations of Arp to precalignant lesions or carcinogen exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systers clearly derion- strate tnet anirals pasodko to hejatocarcinouens have clevated serum AFP concen- trations prior to developrant of Falignant tumers. It is hoped that syster:tic study of human sera frut differert aurces will determing if serum AFF concun- In addition, the role of envirumental factors such as hormo'tal influences on the production of oncodevelopmental gene pri-b.1s can be further explored in different sy:toas. Such data implics that (he prod;u tion of oicocavelopmental gene product, by turor cells is net a fixed property of a givon tumor but is We look fonrard to workina with you and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the importunt subjert of oncodeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinosen exposure.
subject to environmertal controls.
expression. Best regards, Stewart Sell, M.D. Professor SS/nb
a
