Genetie Epidemiology 5:265-275 (1988)

Estimating Genetic Parameters of Survival
Distributions: A Multifactorial Model

Joanne M. Meyer and Lindon J. Eaves

Department ol Human Genetics, Medical College ol Virginia, Richmond
For a number of genetically influenced illnesses, age of onset is correlated between
relatives. in some cases, age of onset also serves : an index of an individual's
inherited liabiliry to an illness. Typically, survival models for age of onset distri-
butions do not allow for these effecte. We have used the gamma distribution as the
basis of a model which specifies genetic variability in a8e of onset. Specifically,
we allow the hazard frequency parameter of the gamma distribution of be a
monotonic function of an individual's inherited liability to an illness.
under various gamma models indicate that age of onset correlations may be
strikingly different from correlations in liability. Maximum likelihood estimation
procedures were used to obtain parameter estimates from simulated data sets and
on determine whether la is possible to discriminate between gamma processes of
different order. The results for 1,000 pairs of twins 00s) monozygotic and 500
dirygotic) gave parameter estimates that were fairly accurate but that decreased in
precision as the order of the gamma process increased. We discuse the effect chis
may have on inferences made about age of onset.
Key words: age of onset correlations, survival models, gamma distribution

rolmte

Simulations

INTRODUCTION

Genetic analyses of illnesses and behaviors showing a variable age of onset
require a knowledge of the cumulative probability of onset by given ages. Some
approaches (Weinberg, 1915; Stromgren, 1938; Risch, 1983) derive this probability
from prior age of onset distributions. Others (Elston, 1973; Heimbuch et al., 1980;
Risch, 1983) estimate parameters of a cumulative age of onset distribution from the
data. When the data allow its use, the latter method in more appealing since specific

Received for publication January 11, 1988; revision accepied April 22, 1988.

Address reprint request to Joanne Meyer, Deparment of Human Geneties, Box 33 Medieal College of

Virginia, Richmond, VA 23298.
1988 Alan R. Liss, Inc.