CP
9-9-
Makersof Cigarettes Claim Nolnterestin Pot NEW YORK day) - Ciga- CONVITONE TOBACCO company rette manufacture have DOZA erest in report recommendation was
bea es a > * AV sa' Tuesday, coltiçial noted that the staff legalize marijuana for per- of hons over 18 years age 2 while : the. biggest market Preventlon amight be a lower age brack- * A Naax d mends legalization or "pot" Nat:Mary Jane sort ol t goes with the youngsters." com- Sam Fouts, advertis ."No, no no, 2 = as Ring Sented manager for Larus Bros. been a rumortor pn last E . a & Co.. ol Ricbmond, Va. years and thatyave E. cadse 'Mary Jane is an old nick- to check ser on thoroughty, this an pame for marijuana but gen- erally has fallen Into disuse anywhere; mfthe Cindustry. among the young. William Kloepler & the To- : Fouts, noting that mari- bacco Institute, declared. a Juana is "still a rather taboo topic" in the cigarette in- "THERE) LNSI P ol. dustry, emphasized that his goes by ubatsome segment company "wouldn't touch it
say chey à diversifying to PARD mari- or - juana, despite a taft report a of the on the Causes - ol Violence * Zrecom- alet, for adults.
a en
There is - to
: -
ASES 208. month à the underground : press doesn't cerry Astory about et all." how tobacco companies arei gearing a for the marifuana trade," pouret-poppy Bolling. vice president and assistant Philip Morris, chairmanio - 1 Inc. He PIES auver this type of : speculation Xinis S under- "algepuegs nte. tobacco com- panjes E Aping beld,and under strict goverment con trol; no'one can eved remote- ly become thyolved' "because at" "the present" 1 dme mari- juana is illegal. 1. NTRAS : . There have been persistent stories 2 that "tobacco com- panies already have regis- tered E possible . brand names trademarks .that in- clude some of the current ve- nacular, associated 431M marijuana, and that 'they have been buying dn huge tracts ol land in Mexico on which to harvest marijuana. . reserva : "WE'RE NOT filing for trademark names like "Aca- pulco Gold' or buying land south of the border," com mented, Jabr 2 : a a ai ast ust REV - a 47 sn nat nst 11 a a a en S a au * a sat hor onir te a vru a a er at or . a 41 tas a a the 5e - L . - uun - nace 00 ie ie e : E art Liss SA * N au 05 de ria ensy 30 - a en J
