NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A campaign to woo Dade County teenagers away from smoking a under way bere as part of a natlon-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groupe, the society hopes to persuade large pro- portion of the nation's young people that amoking may Jead oo Key wrapn la the : I a a flim strip detalling thr rav I tebacen, It han already I shewn to Menth graders ln 15 schools * educational telesinion, and will 1 breadeast tn min Krada acience students la the A seventh-grade program, directed by teacher Bill Evans, inchuded a panel discussion in which students directed ques. tiona at Dr. Francis N. Cooke, representing the society. - "Teachers I have talked to agree that although amoking a not a serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu- dents are approaching the age when the problem will be, faced." a Erane said: I value a the nimstrips 1 that IB gives studenta " logkal argument with whleh ithey eonld retuee ta meke I Pnrauraged by their alrele et triende be added. The Nim atrip la also being alim "live" lo senior big h achools la 3 county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October '6 1960
Education Cuts Youth
*
Habits American eigaret moking can b reduced % per cent through a teenage education program . the high schools. h statistics were presenled Saturday 44 Walter G. I director of public education for the American Cancer Society, hert lor the Florida Division, a annual meeting I said the "det.moke" I was directed at leensiers as a I for-eating cancer I a the s,4pos eenjetion that staoking r canse ol fatal I a prospects of reducing cigaret moking beb one-fth I jonn in pilol program conducted with 2,000 high acheol atudents at Purtiand, Ore, I 1 I dis a Bodrnts I I I we moet lukely to e4 Smoking increased in de successive high school grades. Among boys participating a the Oregon aurvey, 143 pes cent I as freshmen, 25.2 per eent : sopbemores, 3LI & eent a juniars, and 35.4 as I A correspond- ing ligures for girl stodenta were 46 per cent, 10.6 per [ et or the students. EA per cent ol the boys I regularty at lenst onre a I as & 116 per cent ol the girte .4. Education programs against smoking paonpar 1 mamber ol new amokers I boys from a per I to 1.7 & cent, and beginning girl mokers from B4 la 1. 4: I mid a figures projected I . 1 peried indicaled that R per eent Al high school syapty H g deterred from smoking through a 6 educational program The stody. le i revealed that the I - approach : in I F long term Mect ed moking. leaving the decision s F E + e / Least ellective, he I : d aimple inatruction not la I As part el a I aducation prograts. a 6 has I a P strip I allecta A a habit for screming a 1 achool ]
Fag
a cancer.
at the Lagu. Mar Hotel L I I
apring.
anume the Hgaret Anbit a
14.2 per cent and % I
E i
e
PROGRAM EFFECTIVE
e. BILL MULLEN 20/0022686
-
