True-ralse Questlons 8 the Chenistry and hychenyalogy.et.com and Flavor 1. TF Sono modern workers suggest that nocurate mensurent of vlbrational frequency (in fhe far intrared, for exanple) of nn unknown odorant wili pernlt prediction of its quallty and intenslty. T F No elenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone hos eny odor; Instead they react with the mucose forning new products whlch are smelled; but T F Sone odorants have sterle or vlbrational propertles whlch force the conclusion that they are odorless whon they are not. It. T F Present evldence strongly suggests thet different parts of the olfactory receptor area, Ilke tho retina In the eye, are quallty-specific. TF Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor TF No one yet has a fire clue as to the criticol relation between the molecule and the receptor which permlts on odor perception. TF The greater the secretion rate of eucous or sellve, the hlgher their pH, and both pli end temperature influence the quallty of sensation in the 111. TF The Ideal instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sano quantitatlve range ns doos an onlmat or human subject. TF Such an Ideat detector has not been developed. IV. : IF observers with head In fixed position cen by virtue of the two Indopondet nostrils eesliy discern stereo Suoll effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier a odorant Is at the right or left hand, much 05 orie uses nts two cara in locating the source of a sound, 11 For certaln musk-like conpounds, forty molecules are sufficient to trigger a hunon olfactory response. 'A TF Admptation to one olfactory qunlity does not significantly reduce sensitivity to any other dissiei lar quallty, but does reduce sensl- tivity to all slallor quelifies. TF By employing a similarities nethod of conpering qualities, one con nov obtain ldentity hnd degroes of difference without recourse to troshle- vi, TF Hunger lowers thresholds slightly to some food qualltios but not for 1F Ir is now possible to Identify the Intensity and quality of a certain given stimull simply by expert examination of the electrophysiological record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons. I F Electrical stimulation of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and e "etallic" or "alkaline" quality. T J Direct electrical stimuletlon of the olfactory senae has nover yet beon successfully accompllshed. VII. TF Although total anosala is rare In humans and egeusla even rarer, there is evidence that In analogy to color vision defleiences, some people are Insensitive to (only certain) qualities while hoving normal sensitivity to others. - F Toplcal anesthetics applied to the tongue show that alfterent quellties 1 F Certaln endocrine diseese entitles make It possible for sone people quite sensitively to "smell" such "odorless" substances 09 sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to nornet by eanipuletion of endocrine levels. TF Promenopausal wonen at the tlme of ovulation flnd certain odors extremely disogreeable whlle at other times In the menstruni cycle these same odors
sone elements possess taste.
surface In order to be smelled.
chemical senses.
sone words. others.
51
of taste disappear at different rates.
they will judge quite pleasant.
OVI X -
