HKB2223022
Life Sciences Vol. 15. PP. 1291-1300 Printed in the 9-8.A.
Perganon Press
NETAROLISM or nmolalpyane a kren - a PRON TISSUES b PRECINIT kies FITAL MARTERE I Y. Mang, Ronald ai Rasmunen, and T. Timothy Crocker" Cancer Research Institute, Univeraity of California, San Praneinco, and Depart- I of Commanity and mvironmental Medieine, University of California, Irvine". (Received in final form 26 August 1974) I Pretreatnent of hansters vith benzo talpyrene (BaP) greatly incressed 3 51 vitre metabolian of E by lueg aleronone i progrant I atars, and a less oftect 5 the metabolim of Bap by itver miere- I The produetion of various metaholites of E a lung miere- sones I inereaned to different extentat 3-hydroxy-mar (J-CH-BAP) I ene of the najor satabolites a metabolic yielde of : dihydrodihydrow--ap (9,10-diol) and 1,0-diol vere increnad more than that of E 4,5-diol. In the ehee of liver nierosone, only the yielde of 9,10-diol and 7,0-diel vere ineressed ovar the eontrel lovels, The presence of eyclohexene oxide in the incubation E tures decreased the production of the diole. Basal-leval enryme activitles in placental, fetal liver, and fetal akin mierosones in metabolizine E vere very low. Pretrentant of pregmant haintara with Bap indaced RaP-netabolieing ensymes in fetal tiseue 2-3 fold. Bansolalprene (am ie . carcinogen and anviremmental contaninant that is found in eoal tar, aineral of1, a exhaust, tohacee snoke, moked foods, ete. (1). In vitro station ahoved that netabolie activation of Bar is required for ite intaraction viah proteins and nuclele aeide (2,1). Farller studies with rat livar preperations :4,5) and hamater liver mierosones (6,7) shoved that Bar le metahelised minly 8 phenolie and dihydrodihydrow talol) derivatives, and 9 quinones I are ensymatie or air neidetinr peoducte & enatable phenolic metabolitas (4,51 as vell an nome unidentified more polar metabolites, The metabolies of Rat han generally been nessred Aq the production of 3-hydroxy- BaP (3-ON-MP) which in after one of the major metatolites in vitro (3). 3-0H- PaP ie toxie te evitured eelle (0), but it shove very 1stle interaction vith DEUA in vitro (6) and has not been shown 3 % carcinogenic. 8 the ather hand, K-regton epoxides ef related polycyelle aronatie hylrocartone (PAR)bind 8 cell-
1291
