page 43
HONINONI Philadelphia, Pa. March 27, 1964
INQUIRER Philadelphia, Pa. March 26, 1964
2 Cancer Types Rare In Nuns, Study Shows PALM BEACH SHORES, Fla., March 26.-An extenalve nuns has shed light on some stubborn problems of medical research, it was reported LIVE 6 YEARS LONGER The survey, conducted with that the average age of death the "generous collaboration" of was 77.5 years, about six years chureh authorities, has enlisted higher than for American wom- the cooperation of more than en in general. 116,000 auns in 262 religious Dr. Nix said the nuns "get Some preliminary results- numbers as other women, but based on pilot stadies and a por. they seem to get them 10 years tion of the main survey in 1963 later than the average woman." -vere revealed here at the There was a strikingly low sixth annual American Cancer incidence of cervical cancer, Society Science Writers Semi- which Dr. Nix attributed- to "This is an unusus! type of en, although it can now be activity for the a'sun said detected early enough with the Dr. James T. Nix, of New so-called "Pap smear" test so Orleans, director of the study. that it can be treated effective- they. felt the knowledge is -w Among the nuns, Dr. Nix found portant, and that it was their only one case-in a 93-year-old The survey's primary target a fairly high incidence hand, of breast was lationships of bealth to celibacy, "The nuns realized that a abstinence from alcobol or larger series would be of great- smoking and other environmen- er statistical value and have One of the striking findings of death information for the cal- the pllot study was that squa- endar year 1964," Dr. Nix said. mous cell lung cancer-the type As the new data chiefly caused Aq smoking. are being processed pour L5 they which makes up the great computers of the Tulane the Univer- big majority of all lung eancer sity Biomedical Computing Cen- cases today-occurs only rarely ter. They promise valuable in- Dr. Nix added that the e habits of living on health.
Higher Death Rate
Males Is
By GARY BROOTEN Of The Inquirer Staff among Roman America's Catholic The most striking finding: heart attacks in about the same
Among
survey of causes of death Thursday.
Attributed
to
Heavy Smoking PALM BEACII Inquirer Stajf 1 significant fact in itself. March 25.-A leading SHORES. Fla.. But by comparing the 69,000 ex- statistician said Wednesday bealth that cess smokers' deaths with the much of the long accepted dif. 155.700 excess death. among all ference in death rates between men, the statisticians came to sexes may be attributable to the conclusion that 14.8 percent differences in eigaret smoking. of these excess deaths among not fundamental sex differences. males could be blamed on L. Levin, evidence now indi- Previously, the differences cates that eigarets can be (which are usually expressed America every year. deaths women) had been attributed Excess deaths can be defined loosely to biological and other loosely as early deaths. In dillerences between men and lated Aq comparing deaths 11. is important to remember general life expectancy expected tables. from He said : tact flial the Dr. Levin. chiel of epidemi- Surgeon General's Advisors ology at the Roswell Park Committee report on Memorial Institute in Butfalo. did not smokin; N. Y., made his remarks at the give a figure for total sixth annual American Cancer excess deaths due to xmokine Society Science Writers' Semi "underscores the magnitude of par bere. this public Levio health problem." He offered figures reported on the patients who had gone that nearly 45 percent of thr through the institute's Ameri higher male death rate can bc can Cancer Society-Sponsored attributed to smoking. rescarch project on smokers The reasoning runs like this: withdrawal clinies, but gave no In the 25-to-64-year age statistics on how many had 155,700 more men than woan He said died in Amcrica preliminary in a given indicate that an antismoking typical year (1960), compound, Lobeline. h elps In the same year. there were smokers quit. but only while 69.800 excess deaths among male they are taking it. smokers. These men ably would not have died presum- year had they not been that smokers. The excess deaths among smokers constituted 20 percent
By GARY BROOTEN Of The
of all deaths for that age group
communities.
Furthermore. said Dr. Morton smokina. blamed for "a minimum" 100.000 excess
nar.
celibacy and good hygiene. Can- cer of the cervix is a common disease. among American wom-
DUTY TO HUMANTTY
in of as a longer life expectancy for
"But they cooperated because ly. duty to all their sisters and to E humanity." la to pin down some ol the E cancer. talfaciors.
sinoking studies, they are calcu- women. among smokers at each level with deaths
that other factors are at work,"
age Dr. Levin said.
- sister. On the other
there
already started collection of nun
(irst Dr. 300 indicatin;
in,
among the nuns. rules ulcers.
formation on the infuence of
group. quit smoking.
liglous communities' no-smoking seem a likely reason for a strikingly low incidence of bleeding or perforating peptic Preliminary resalts from the main study were based on 575 of the 1116 deaths reported in the communities last year.
results
heavy
1005151230 A
