2/4
slult?
IAT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira New York Timer Serrier
wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars a
made cigarettes last year, ringing became E issue even 'in recent
($2.86) compared with 22 panies can advertise on TV after cigarettes and an aggressive campaign. Television gifts," TPRIC 100 was out- lawed LE the States in 1971. junior high LUNINALIT old Cigarette packages sold in i3ycars and usari must carry a label make sake o health, doa't smoke loo to DAT with than the health-warning labels jou or much because ol the adver. tising as because they are of better manufactur- quality and taste beiter. American
TAIPEI - The Mariboro COW- dn sales of $119 million. la 1986, trade talks betwoen the United 11 Taiwan dollari E cents)fora boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Stalcs and Taiwan. Wang Chico. pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly 18 shieng Taiwan'sdeputy minister of The limits on cigaretie advertis town. His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered R ing in Japan are more liberal. Com-
and dod-pus-wou. stores through- uva cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest. guitar-playing pep-suval promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted This frenetic, fast-growing GA- cigarette exporis last year, primari- teachers told me that billion cigarettos last dropped long-siandiog restrictions. are DOW smoking How can pubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta ol like that? le's O.K. lo To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy a 'S16 vomiq trade ialand, And that has created 2 furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year. that." Covernment officials bave accused imports have more than tripled American cigarette tbe American companies of entic the past year. The market share ing teen-agers take da moking. more than of a charge the American companies frons 3 percent percent sl 1986, The soverameot-administered dicts that it could grow 19 15 8. 20 sales pitch. operation that had monopolized percent iq 1992. .proseure from Washington. ln the alcohol. year since still restrictions oc for. "This really burts our .cipn cigarettes were dropped. sales uaid Jaw have soared, peadod growth American man- LENANGE ufacturers ata time when sales h export Taiwan? Younger laws = way 'dn
our this city, next to posters ola peroeni. a Winston ol cigarettes. tioe of nearly 20 million people amoked 34
amusement placesto 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting
most for of the in American growth ly because
ad said recently. "Many school- advertising of
bouh Tuwan and Japan school students - 12.
year and for the first time, a According lo the Brown pri Wil- rette companies promote cipa toughly transiated, says, "For the brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting 5 si billion in new sales. the United States. But surplus those people mandated in the United States. Wacturers have essentially intro InJapan, which has - population are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe bompanies American paonp cigarette advertising to the of 120 million and where people, man, human being.you wod't do cigarettes are selling NET in Taiwan
made . America, not Taiwan. all American-made
cigarettes occupy the whole markets. We en- much" a warning much milder
American cigarettes increased E vigorously deny there is any-
e botly deny.
52E last and
thing wrong with the way they are digarettes are made of biended to promoting their products and bacco and have less which tar than Tai-
are not
Department of Agriculture pro- ihry have no pians to change EE waese bleoded. cigarettes,
Tbey are not allowed to advertise a small stores where cigarettes are sold, as well as through promo- a feelings." legislator. tions. Cigarette manulacturers may dom excooda 200,000. le E
the cigarette market had not adver- Taiwan officials tbey rosent on television or in newspapers. Nor A government agreed to allow markets of producu that endanger They can advertise only through .others into the business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and postershung near cigaretie racks or 2 American cigarettes b Taiwan A. tbe United Shau-kong Suates doca not en- also place 120 ada a year 5 maga the Unilod States are way down and females are smoking a 39 Belore last i lorcign ciga- and a number ol anti-imoking causc of American E They hire rettes accountod a leas than 1 According to the U.S. Depart- arettes froe in sgaputu k's KmA digarettes, banned imports at ag medt R Agrioulture, people B Tai- difficult lor young boys 6 resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed 01 sell
_tised, altbough it does now,
American pressure ga open their have they pushed to do io, they say.
much- courage its people to amoke, why zines, cach ol whose droulation acl- young attractive Po-rink-61 girla oent of tbe market Taiwan Suuvan short skirts oi give mp de posed strict quotas on forcip and then it becomos a babit. I'i cigarettes and imposed stif tarifls.
le
14
immoral."
: rerult, imported ciparetie cost
