May 16 "96 8:44
P.11
Chicago Tribune
MAY. 16 1996
Philip Morris, UST offer plan to curb teen use of tobacco Proposal would prohibit FDA regulation, ban 'loosies' and vending machine salès
By Barbara Sullivaa TRIBUNE STAFF WAITER Philip Morris Cos. and UST Inc OM 10 the largest 0000E991 companies. went on the ollen- sive Wednesday, proposing surdoams legislation to curb teen tobacco use. The proposals, which would include a ban on vending machine and single-cigarette sales and Impose curbs on advertising. go further than restrictions sought by the Food and Drug Administration, the companies said. The quid pro quo, however, la that the FDA be prohibited from any regulation of tobacco prod- ucts "it there's FDA involvement. the deal is not on the table," said Ellen Merio Philip Morris USA senior vice president of corporate affairs. are not meant as a compromise, and restricting tobacco usage. this is a solution. beneficial.
3/1
Arunt Maar
AP phose
Steve Pamish. a Philip Morris Cos. senior vice president, at a which have not yet received would include a $250 million however. sa w the tobacco pro- "They realtze that the FDA is most serious about protecting others. a the tobacco industry). and they SEE CIGANETTTS, PACE 2
Merlo also said the proposals news conference Wednesday. or first step toward rapproche- pany and UST is the biggest ment, with the government's maker of snuff and chewing mounting push toward regulating tobacco The two companies "This goes way beyond a com- support from other tobacco promise, Merlo said. "We think companies. said their proposal Merlo said further that the industry fund spent over a five- proposals are so comprehensive year period to help implement that unilateral action by Philip the legislation. Morris- and UST would not be Some anti-amoking advocates, "We couldn't inplement these posals as nothing more than a actions on our own. without leg- blatant smoke screen to keep islation." she said. 5 only one the FDA out of the picture. Philip Morris. maker of Marl- kids from the blandishments (of
or OMI companies participated. there would be no impact." boro Cixarettes aniong the world s biggest tobacco com-
