RAP
MERICAN JOURNAL OF Public Health
Editorial Volume 77, Number - Alfred I MD. MPH
May 1907 Established 1911
EDITOR Less Hazardous Smoking and the Pursult of Satisfaction Cigareites deliver drugs: al root smoking is drug laking Sernite wurk has conhrmed nicotine as a powerfully reinforcing psychoac tive drug Fol the consum ASSISTANT EDETOR er. then; ulra low-yicid cigarelies raise the simple issue uf Jrug culting un ! 1 I DPH adulteration. The unsainfactorines of ultra low yieldcigarenes in seen mahe 4 at ay of customers for these products even in heakh cons aus Calforna As nuted Aq Maron and Fortmann in this issue of the Journal only - K per cent of MINEE in - EDITORIAL BOARD population based sample smuke cigareties in the ranggol 0 lo mg nn une lu Mary F 1 DPH (1987) 2ng "tar Despne the publicay about dincase nsks of smuking and the wwepre - Chaiperaon belief that ultra lone ma cigarettes are les hazardous anust smekers will nut LLINS Doris 1 RN DPH (1989 the sireet for these cigareties, les alone walk the advenised mule No doubt umokers have roulindyned ulura lom yicle 4 garelles and and a Joy o Dryfoos: MA (19es routinely have rejected them an unsainlying A ma > - mg nacutin : IS Manin s. Favere no (1988) delivers 4 80 per cent diluting air in tach ouf 1 es by ofhual mok ing ma hane Frederick C Green MD (1968 Those smokers who karn the irichs of compensatory umuking are mure hkely lu Mary Grace Karar DPH. MS (1988) persist in smoking these cigareines than are those smukers who do not de youp salisfactory compensation les hniques For ulura low yeld carenes. the main smoking les hniques are blus hang the Jiluting an venis on hiters wHh hp ur hnger Kenneth d Rogers, MD MPH (1987) taking larger puffs, and, as Maron and Formann remund us. simply smok ing aune Zena T MA MB (1989) cigarenes per day A smeke sell selecion beas icompensators remain nim Ferande A Trevino. PO. MPH (1987) compensators kave) may cause much of the discouraging panern lount in and Experimenul Endrar 7 Recent expenments shuw - more enc ouraging pu fure E Devid Wray, MD, MPH (1960) of whal mighi be ganed frum the wwespread use ul ultra lew yiclu Kas eue by amokers who refuse to quit Burgout West. e al randomiy assagned 14 smuken IU remain wwh their om brand (average - 2 nicoline 14 STATT le switch le ue uhra low yeld hrand 01 mg nacoline. William H. McBeach, HD MPH smoking the altra low yield group had plasma nicoline levels that were unh au per Eserutive DerchoriMansinging Editer cent of the own brand poup is 4 V3 22 . ngimit carbon monor ude le velx Jiflered by Adrienne - mo 0 per seet uo - u 33 2 ppm) (Alihough nue noted un ihr Mruhnd Pasie raniona Drerte explicaly instrucied not to block bher venus IK Weu Personal Cummuns anunli Deyne Banky Simularly in the expenmental component ul sher repurt Benuwit a 1 fand Aasistent Manngas i panial compensation in smukers whe were forued lex ume uhra lun - - CILES ues Marve Barnen (Behavioral blux Lung of hlier venus was not forbidden is thia Mudy. bul I have been ENarial A anistent discouraged by delails of the procedure y The combuned lesson of the cruss secimal surveys and the forced set hing Proder and f expenments is I if there is lo be ma umal progress with the cunent wyle ultra kre 1 Dobbs yick cigareile #s use Areds lo be ens ouraged mure fors celully Une ul the ie amen Proder 1 Adyernuing Aurunet smokers dun't put up asth uhra lue yelds 15 that higher yeld cigarene at unly an easy purchave away Imagine chus date lover las 2 with en i a 2 Land un 4 desen inland sucha candy maghi veem treal but in well sho 2 candy vhas ihe y a CONTRI BUTING EDITORS pseulox hex olates would galher dust especially a they were nus - Aanas JD, MPH the more salislying chocolaies cigarette manulacturers were requered lu 1 only E I Hrehh Thre 1 No (guarding against more problemaix hlter desgns"). theve cigaretie maghi ha - 1 H Tuhon. MD, DrPH grealer eflect on expesures lo smoke TOKINS than they do in the wwe upen mail 1 Jus Noera I shr Firk as drug conient of medications is sincily regulated au shuld be Jrug vucht ut garene Jeas j E smoke Many smukers would over smuke thex carenes. by break Bur ull hite a I i blocking vent i and by smoking grealer numbers per day And sume seme a
Irene H. Butier, no (1987) Jean I HD MPH (19es) Philie d Weiker MD usety
Julia A. Waller MD 169611 reviewed in the curreni report
tar and 12 smuk - tar a Over 10 Jays ul en 514
Michele Horion GEXXRE 1 - rhe i Barburs G Rosenk 1 PND 5 Naty 1007, Val 77 No
heape ihun parelle
ir
530
2501662717
