Vol 285 No. 23

EDITORIALS

1317

The New England
Journal of Medicine
Official Organ of
The Mossachusetts Medical Society
the NEW EXGLAND JOURNAL or
MEDICINE AXD SURGERY and continued in 1828 as Vol. of
the BOSTON MEDICAL AND Suacical JOURNAL
PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE COMNTTTEE 03 PUBLICATIONS
or THK MASSACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY
Claude E. Welch, M.D., Chainaan
Joseph Garland, M.D., EDITOR EMERITUS
Franz J. Ingelfinger. M.D., EDITOR
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
George S. Richardson. M.D., Boos Reviews
Robert O'Leary, ASSISTANT EDITOR
EDITORIAL BOARD

ACTION ON ASBESTOS
ASDESTOS workers are unintentional victims of
industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary
fibrosis, pleural calcification, mesothellomas and lung
cancer. Asbestos exposure is now
involving not only air but also
wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the
lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex-
posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or
ferruginous bodies may be, there is no doubt that
electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers
ease in the general population at this time, the
presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing.
Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by
most chemical and physical means and can float
freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods.
Asbestos diseases have a long latent
sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must
be made now, on the basis of "reasonable probabili-
ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition
of dose-response relations.
These thoughts are reinforced by the work of

Founded le 1812 as

widespread,
drinking water,

Alexander Marble, MD.
Samuel Proger, M.D.

Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos.: Al-
Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-

20
period,

Jane F. Desforges, M.D.
Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.

Ronald A. Malt, M.D.

Arnold L. Smith, M.D, years or more. We therefore believe that more

Robert E. Johnson, M.D.
Norman 2 Levinsky, M.D.
Francis D, Moore, M.D.
Charies A. Sanders, M.D.
Jerome H. Shapiro, MD
Ronald A. Arky, M.D.
Dana L. Farnnworth, M.D.

John W. Litdefield, M.D. Murphy and associates in this issue of the Journal
Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, (p 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in
Louis Weinstein, M.D, new ship construction include better than usual
John R. David, M.D. exposure data and indicate a high incidence of as-
Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. bestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have
Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-

Howard Bleich, M.D.

Isadore N. Rosenberg, M.D.
Milton C. Paige, 4 BUSINESS MANAGER
manuscript, including references, should

tions. A second study of Murphy et al.' reports two
cases of pleural disease (one mesothelloma) in
workers who sanded asbestos foor tiles. Since the

AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the EU
und should consult "Information for Authors," This malerial thors simulated the working conditions and found
may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour- concentrations of 1.3 fbers per milliliter of room
nel. or it may be obrained from the Journal office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of
space, and all material, including figures, should uned submit- used threshold limit values. A fber per milliliter of
CASZ REPORTS, usualiy published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 10 fbers every
gence" section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled

be

double

currently
figures suggest that
has called for control

ted in duplicate.

room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per
an alarming number will still accumulate over a 10-
A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation-
asbestos emissions at the source and for protec-
The report also calls for further rescarch on the

reference to articles reporting closely related cases. A very fbers remains in the
short case report or : description of a technie submitted as a
"Burer RECORDING" should be limited to 500 words,
MATERLAL prinsed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period.
cine is covered by copyright. The Jourwal does not hold itself
responsible for statements made by any contributor.
NOTICES should received
be
day, 24 days before date of publication.
cies published Requests should be sent to the author.
imply endorsement by the Journal,
Arbor, Michigan 48106.
chusetts 02115.

these
lung,
paneli

al Academy of Sciences

not later than noon on Mon- of

.

REPRINTS: The fournat does not stock reprints of the arti- tion of those who are exposed in their occupations.
ALTHOCGH all advertising material accepted is expected to biologic effects and the physica! characteristics of
conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance does not asbestos fibers; such data are urgently needed "if a
SUBSCRIFTION PRICES (worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with
interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates are s. U.S. fundsonly, confidence." Although we endorse these recommen-
MICROFILM volumes availabie to regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for
through University Microfilms, 31S N. First Street, Ann technical controls based on existing
COMMUNICATIONS shouid be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as-
land Journal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects

knowledge.

on cells and tissues are important and must be con-