Genetic Epidemiology 5:265-275 (1988)

Estimating Genetic Parameters of Survival
Distributions: A Multifactorial Model

Joanne M. Meyer and Lindon J. Eaves

Department of Human Genetics, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond
For a number of genetically influenced illnesses, age of onset is correlated between
relatives. In some cases, age of onset also serves as an index of an individual's
inheritedi liabiliry of ue illness. Typically, survival models for age of onset distri-
butions do not allow for these effects. We have used the gamma distribution as the
basis of a model which specifies genetic variability in age of onset. Specifically,
we aliow the hazard frequency parameter of the gamma distribution to be a
monotonic function of an individual s inherited liability it an illness. Simulations
under various gamuma models indicate that age of onset correlations may be
strikingly different from correlations in liability. Maximum likelihood estimation
procedures were used to obtain parameter estimates from simulated data sets and
to deiermine whether it is possible 01 discriminate between gamma processes of
different order. The results for 1,000 pairs of twins (500 monozygotic and 500
dirygotic) gave parameter estimates that were fairly accurate but that decreased in
precision as the order of the gamma process increased. We discuss the effect this
may have on inferences made about age of onset.
Key . erds: age of onset correlations, survival models, gamma distribution

INTRODUCTION

Genetic analyses of illnesses and behaviors showing a variable age of onset
require a knowledge of the cumulative probability of onset by given ages. Some
approachès [Weinberg, 1915; Stromgren, 1938; Risch, 1983) derive this probability
from prior age of onset distributions. Others [Elston, 1973; Heimbuch et al., 1980;
Risch, 1983] estimate parameters of a cumulative age of onset distribution from the
data. When the data allow its use, the latter method is more appealing since specific

Reccived for publication January 11, 1988; revision accepted April 22, 1988.

Address reprint request 10 Joanne Meyer, Departmem of Human Genetics, Box 33 Medieal College of

Virginia, Richmond, VA 23298.
a 1988 AJan R. Liss, Inc.