SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
In a cross-sectional investigarion in one building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validated complaints associaied with the "sick building syndrome questionnaire. The symptoms were more common .B build- were measured on e linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and Ar the same time, the micro-environment (environmental humidification. irrespective of the xe of the buildings. A characteristics 5 the breathing zone rather than area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air samples) E characterized by measuring 'ammodun quality parameten was not described. Skov et al. (1967) ex- relarive humidiry, respirable suspended particulases, car- amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern 1 bon dioxide, noise level, lighting iniensiry, relative i lown halb and 14 older control buildings. E level ol symp midiry, and airflow. No relationship E seen between I : related 01 - "feecing" factor (carpets, upbolstery the degree of symptoms and age. educarion, or duration and horizontal surfaces) ad the "macro-molecular compo of employment at the building or time spent in the build- nent" of dust. They also demonstrated - relationship between hn on a daily basis. Staristically, complains were the oumber of houn spent photocopying and using carbonles significantly more frequent among Supyour I Envi- copy paper and the level of complaints. Other srudies have ronmental characteristics associated i * increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985) complaint levels in this group included decreased airflow and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute models, there E an association benween respirable pus- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome by I pended particulases and the levels of boch mucous I suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertaon et brane and syssemic complaints. Sarisfaction wish the P (1965) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. 1 environment e predicted by perceprion of dreft ferences la the concentrations of enviroamental pollutants inaensiry a also associated 1 complaints. Date strate . relationship berween symptoms and both area i of the sick building syndrome should examine ples measuring dust and . "macro-molecular" traction, ag
- €
velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended par- a indoor air quality complaints.
riculates and dry-bulb semperature. In 1 did not clearty contribute a she degret of sympton although regression models PIP nuggest dhar compl were not independent of thermal parameters.
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual berween rooms la a mechanically and a naturally ventileted building. They studied the rooms with the I comp I and used area samples. Skov et de (1987) & des Area samples la buildings may not be representative of the exposures la different points in # rooms. Physical characteristics soch as windows and partitions, computers, and shehving may infuence air currents. Radiant heat may
muliple exposures simultaneously I 1 paycho in area I social mearures os idenify predictors of complaints in
indoor spaces. INTRODUCTION
Complaints lermed the E building syndrome" bave lead OI uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally. most - led to numerous investigations in the last is I They are hutants resuh from point sources, os they will be diluted as thought to occur primarily a newty constructed ofice 1 subject .n farther removed from the soarce. The micro 1 E and, at least in the past, were thought to be due to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem, - different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroe- wide variety of causes have been identifed in specifk I meat of a building. In addition. all applied occupational and inchuding inadequate temperature and relative I $ environmental bealth research that attempas 01 relate dose o trol. noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds beakh effects sufien from the problem that dose a generally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, environmental lobecco measured at several points in time and then extrapolated 8 umoke, pesticides. I entrainment of vehicle exhaost or allow developmem of exposure classifications over decades spent I contaminated air and boiler fumes. 6bers released # most heakh effects are meeured as . 1 1 of from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of I A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnepan where the level of symptoms Kew change not merely trom et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri day os day but from hour to bour, 1 - stratepy most 3 (Robertson a al. 1985) : unable to identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the micro wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperarure (temper- environment and set these characteristics la relacion os the ature). relative humidity. air velocity. formaldehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at . pven point .s f This itive or nepative ons between several rooms i a building report presents results of a cross sectional investigation of - with narural and a building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using - self-administered. linear I where both 5 of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom 1 I a Amatant Prolesor of Medione und of Industrial and Environmental Heahh Soences at the Unrveruty of Petsburgh Schoob of Medicine and Public Heahh. a I a Director. Enviroomental Heahh and Safery, Camepe-Mellon Univeruty, Pitsburgh. A
(Kreiss and Hodgson 1964; Hodgson and Kreiss 1986). marily 01 mechanical ventilation The same proup of authors
results is greater than the difference in averuge samples, and No investigations in the peer-reviewed literature have
3usp
