NEW. YORK POSI, FRIDAY, MAY- 17, 9661 1 NEWYORKPOST Anenn oldest rontaonowsty pronished disity nowspuper
Anti-smoking skulduggery leading opponents. cigarette Scruggs insists he didn't no danger to human umenta. Perhaps not. "buy" doc- tobacco industry. Suddenly it's revealed enterod the banking business, # is un- that he is secretly receiving a salary from liams clear Aqa Scruggs pmom provide Wil- same lawyers have bought the re- Moreover, how are rensonable people to searcher a house and have co-signed two interpret Williams "salary? car loans for him. In his defense, the sci- This is not the first time Scruggs has Question: How would the media likely Brown & Williamson executive Jeffrey react? A huge brouhaha 02 say the Wigand. latter's CBS News promised to pay the The scientist's research, whatever its Williamson sued Wigand for breaching actual merits, would buried under a his contract's confidentiality clause dur- mudslide of derision. 8€ tobacco indus- ing a widely reported appearance on "60 grounds for attempting to buy a wit- CBS lawyers, fearing that the offer to Now let's change a few details. Say the préted as an inducement to break the scientist li a "whistleblower" who asserts contract, initially scotched the that the tobacco industry is fully aware After the substance of Wigand's segment. charges that cigarette smoking is lethal and has hit the newspapers, his interview was worked to conceal this fact for decades. eventually aired." "loans," rather than working Ramy for to- suffered an embarrassment when a for- bacco industry, are in fact spearheading mer Philip Morris employee recanted tes- There you have the chain of events that Drug Administration (FDA) actually unfolded recently in a Louisville, Jerome Rivers, a former manufacturing Ky., courtroom. Yet the near-silence sur- supervisor for the conglomerate, with- rounding the incident has been deafen- dréw his claim that Philip Morris rou- Merrell run the story on Page One, reported that "evidence" to justify regulating tobacco as representing Brown paralegal Wil- Critics incessantly portray the made internal uct that millions of corporate documents available to attor- After these shenanigans, Americans de la clear lawyer Richard some of tobacco's foes Scruggs one of the tobacco industry's take a careful look in the would mirror. well 85
Imagine this scenario: A scientist who claims to have discovered that smaking Doues to testify on behalf of the tobacco lawyers. It also emerges that the entist insists that, except for the it's all just a loan. least. ness.
health
But unless our has with such substantial "loans. been involved with a subsidized whistle- salary, blower: He also represented former legal fees in the event Brown & pay Wigand's legal costa pmoo be inter- The lawyers providing the and Meanwhile, the anti-tobacco forces also the campaign against it. timony he had given to the Food and tinely measures and adjusts nicotine lev- ingsa (The FDA hoped to use this Williams, a former for a drug.) a law liamson tobacco $109,000 reccived a ns amoral, even ita mortgage other financial consists though 6repoback in selling a industoy rewards. Williams legal prod- ELSA suing the tobacco ANLL-" benefactor companies. when the subject of ethics comes was nexs do
ES would be roundly condemned on ethi- Minutes.
Today, one of the few papers to els.
