li
a
996
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richurd L. Nacye, MD, and Woodrow S. may vary in incidence and Somersct Countirs of
Findings Dollinger, MS the men hnd ever
Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one pationt to another: In coal, roentgenographic categories for found to correlate well with quantitative, measurements of a the volume of macules and nodules. recognition of cmphysema and chronic cor miners with no roentgenographic silica and collagen.
process but a a study of 77 miners of postmortem anatoinic dioxide)and collagen content of dust évidence of pncumoconiosis had
rank, low-volatile conl In Cambrin and rylvania. Nonc of eentral l'ean- ducted between aust und 19-55 ly the Pennsylvanin Inportmeat of Miner End Mineral Indurtries rhuwed an - verage coal dunt biturinags work- free silica runtent of cral d Jut le low in all arenn of lenneyha- - . neklom helng greater tban $.. I: owerer, the mine durt conertitra. : s of free niliea In greater for sonie a Nerground wurkets puch as hof ni"a-hearisx 1 The in cascs pulverin rand, wlerted 14, le heatd ialoine ik> ly whorisited rach of ruven pirpose E -neral hospital, and real t 0yot and I:his, The hatch atarted with the patinit Rirts descriptiuns of the I: lungn. hyn was uny mentlon of ese ive pi ment, parenchy mal nedub . thina nl or any hlatory of ti. nt's clinical mining. the 19- chart was ean.it.d. informatinh meernteg nr:; li and uthr dath were extr.ce: A Wed Vir E . a as inrluded In the rtudy unly In apecin minen Lad : : ur in Tug irmd ly a he whrilde rrith Vir,itia TL : "nail and Irbglame tim alwayr mine d highrr. in teatin * a4 Lim inz nhtained Ilinun'- not int Nu a K Drl 221 027050
bituminous
pneumoconiosls were enined anthracite roal. Surveye een- roentgenepyaphic ing xhift of exposure por werk-
nodules, and (2) the silica (silicon pulmonory dust macules and emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspinea in addition lo dust rom 10; to 4G% of Appalachian chitis and coal workers have rorntgeno lur, graphie evidenee of pncu- symptoms, And physical findinge hare been dimieult to make, workers pheumeoniosis ("black 5 is not a single disenne but a composite of inultiple disorders, cach of which and severity, dupendent gruphic aren, exot occupational ex. posure, and opparent inlividual sus- ceptibility. : These nultipke dis onler indude(1)the Faim thy hgann ni nf Tat-te Mhn * Uniter-ity Lulhge of # le i Il-ren Resh, 2 Bou te Sargu) I Apral 10, 1972 . vol 220. No 2
Unfertunately, Ihrre was poor
which appear to be most closcly correlated pulnonale, ile tnu chsdrciers eulik fout of uir JLITU,URN fur paritiles per
with dyspnea. A muniber of ern, The
with
macules
hronchiolitis;(d) erntriluhu- I- Hers and elrdrie Inx panlolular, and parariciticicl - who dril) into omcive ojer di-esve prireses 11. rough a search of Appear to make difering resits ilou- t: - huthera, ographie featuren of parumorminsinsi. l twern to determine in paru- fur casen muconiunis with dinalility I In withunt nrericted Tur a rre abnormulities Patients Studied and Methods Patirutu- The patients Wrr : un. ar Thirts-one hal ulwaya mined nf
meconiosia, but cna relatiuns belween emphysema: und (5) tuinerruluiin and n-k or encounter
such roentgenuxreplaic abnormalitics, oivusionally othr di an preesses,
These srparate erpecinlly in tions to disability. h is the prores Another aim is may vars in inridehre some workers upon gro enigenographic
early
stages." Theru dificulties prob of the rurrent
ably arise from the faet that roal individoal sunly tn evahate their L :4y protorul that lavohes every a AU-
influencen a the ruentgen- 4 Ser than 20 Trara of agr win man
maculy € silicuris prinary ent dust derground ininers of hituminuu cnal Cratet, Krperm heme a - 344 - . in. 3 > 2 nevrly nerth tn Pransshania W.
(a) ehrunie hhan- fruni Ivnrey hania and
ginia. of smthw estern ether 46 hal
Hahy Medical C nie . Ivans..hunis Stale low-tank high-rulatib tual in rummties er unel urvapational € uttal 2 1
Pu
PUBLICATIONS
10346287
