WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRIBUNE D. 25,605 s 49,326 WACO METROPOLITAN AREA MAR 9 1963
F.C Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard-. Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission frons going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette So long as cigarettes are lega! merchandise, it does not sccm right or logical that onc medium of advertising be forbidden the producer is hile newspapers, magazines, billboards and ou ntcr displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal and to look again at the federa! Jaw, which expires Jung 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC sald it is proposirg to refuse Jicenses 01 broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising because of evidence that smoking is injurious to health and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals to do as they please 50 long as they doa't harm another. le also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if nok don't mention something. maybe it won't Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democret, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com- merce Commitice, snid in reference to the proposed FCC rule that the ngancy had overstepped the bounds of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has any right 0) tell an advertiser what he could not say in his advertisements, Rogers said Congress will take a close Icok at the whole qunstion of regulutions on television and radio advortising content, not only as to the Federal Communications Commission but in regard to Federa! Trade Commission practices as The stakes involved extend beyond the business of broadcasling. They go to the heart of whether government bureaus should he allowcd to go beyond
advertising.
Hazardous to Your Heulth.
hurt you and will disappear.
well. 2
tho linits of due proccss and the law,
