14
Elu/rs
AT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira New York Timer Servier
wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigurette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars - made cigarettes last year, ringing became an issue even in recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22
TAIPEI I The Marlboro COW- up sales of $119 million. ln '9861 trade € between the United New Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for - boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Siaics and Taiwan. Wang Chicn- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghng from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly 81 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigaretie advertis town. His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, regisiered R ing in Japan are more liberal. Com- This frenetic, fast-growing 0a- cigarette exports last yenr, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawod in the United States in 1971. tion of nearly 20 million people K because both Taiwan and Japan school students I 12, 13 years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- Adnooo joy . $16 billion trade surplus with than the health- -warning labels brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in si billion in new sales. the United States. But those people mandaled in the United States. Wacturers have essentially intro- le Japan, which has a population are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe bompanies say Amencan
and dod-pur-woun stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest. guitar-playing pep-surat promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted
panies can advertise on TV after
OUI this city, next to posters of a peroent. of Winston cigarettes. emoked 34 billion year - and for the CERCELES time, - aubstantial number of them were liamsoo made 9 America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to paonp cigarette advertising to the smoke 300 billion ialand, and tbat has created a furor. Oovernment officials bave accused imports have more than tripled tbe American ing teen-agers 0) take dn moking. more than 10 percent last botly deny. operation that had monopolized percent by 1992. pressure from W ashington. In the alcohol. $ cigarettes wEre dropped. sales said Jaw sfacturers at . time when sales in laws in way up.
"They amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting out cigarettes and gifu," an aggressive campaign Television
er
for
ond
most of the growth in American & said recently. "Many scbool- advertising of cigarettes was out- last dropped long-standiog restrictions, - are DOM smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry label that, 6 the Brown & Wil- rette companics promote cigareties toughly translated, says, "For the
Corp. exporta of like that? It's of 120 million and where people a cigarettes year. ir that. American the past year. The market share 0 *
have O.K. 60 them
sake of health, don't smoke too the whole markets. We en- much" - - warning much milder 'unu - human being, you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan not BO much because of the adver- tising Ls because they are of better there in any- quality and taste better. American thing Buoin with Kan way they are digareties are made of blended to- wancse cigarettes,
Ramedansss.co
cigarette manufactur- They are not allowed 9 advertine 9 small stores where cigarettes are tions. Cigarette manulacturér may dom excoods 200,000. Belore last year, foreign € girls oent of tbe market. Taiwan
companics of entic- American cigarettes increased to 3 vigorously - The goverament-administerd dicts that it could grow to 15 s 20 sales pitch.
- charge a American companies from L percent is 1986, the promoting their products and 1 bacco and have less which tar than Tai-
are not
Department of Agriculture oid thry have no pians to change theu blended. American pressure 5E open their have they pusbed o do 10, they say.
5 cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials tbey resent 00 television Of in newspapers. Nor The government agreed to allow markets to producta that éndanger They can advertise only througb others into the business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and posiers hung near cigaretie racks or year since stiff restrictions on for. "This renlly burts our feelings, sold, RE well u through promo- a American cigarettes UT Taiwan IL. tbe United Shau-kong Sustes docs legisiator. not en- also place 120 E - year in mags. have soared, generating much- courage its people to amoke, why zines, cach ol whosc droulation icl- and tbe number of anti-amoking CEURC of American ada. They hire rettas accountod for leas than - According to U.S. Depart- arettes free in nightclubs. k's @ digarettes, banned imporu at mot of Agriculture, people b. Tai- difficult for Sunok boys to resist, 70,000 retail outlets licenaed to sell
tised, altbough it does now,
a
peadod growth for American man- export to Taiwan? Younger the Unilod States are way down and femaics are amoking .
poopk pro-mak-6!
young attractive immoral. .
ga forg
the
wearing short skirts 6. give a cit posed strict quotas 8 and then it becomos a habit. It's cigarettes and imposed stif tariffs
Ais rerult, imported cigareties cost
