Los ANGELES TIMES Sunday : March 20, 1977
ALOOK ATTESTS
To judge 6y thetorrent of protést: a - received, a sizable por tion of the. calorie-counting puclic agrees Long accustomed to a cross firg A criticism from industry and consumer activists, the FDA has been by citizen demands 9 liber ate saccharin. And moves are afcot F Cangress a amend the. Food: and: There s been a opuaman aut from all: aver the country, # EDA pokesman la Washington said: A W e've ranges from anguish to anger: never been this busy. The FDA; for its part: says it was oniy doing what the law required. the KITOEDDeds-ME the Dela- the F - clause Congress inserted.in de and Drug Act im 1958 says that:1 a (poo1): additive shall be deemed- to a safe E it is found after tests which are loadde oriate for the evaius - of food additives: a tion the saletnat a de : ciause does not allaw fora bai the: ban tor ce: based an : rediire: evidence ofencer in human
The Ban.on Saccharin: How? Why? BOBEF GT Times a and Write Does it make nse to ban a popular food additive on he strength of what happens when hundred rats and € eat de additive in offsprings huge doses? The Calorte Coatral Council, Inc. Allanta thinks not. The trade argani- sation, whose $ 0,000 annual budgat: comes trom manufacturers ci dietary of dallars in thelast few days for fuil is berating is Food and Drug Ad- - istration for its decision 6 ban saccharin. the oniy nonnutritive- sweetenér currently cn the market. Even the IF F is willing 6 admit thère's * basic difference between d rats and human L" cne @ ad in the. TEAL Street Journal: observed. "It's. L anothér RT mpie of the arbit mtire of big guremmen
E a as the logic a law may seem to the general public, medical searchers say. that the animal A ériments uponwhich such --memsai de a decisions are baséd have sen siblef rationale - that they de bave a direct-bearing on risk 6 bu-. mans true, researe ers STIR acknowledge; hat the rats at the: center of this fur ore consumed each day the saccharin L equivalent of reughly 1,000 cans of lowecalorie soit drink But they: con- sidér it not dishonest to misleading-if as the calorie counc!l bas; suggest f the C that disparity makes researo tirelevant to humans. 1 a People who drink oniy one can M - a saccharin soft drink run a £ comparably lower risk of cancer. But B a ai 213 million population people, . RR collective hazard cauld still add thousand cases of blad - upto several 4 - P.ive dercancer: foreover, scientists note, rat -ants I a T
bésteged Drug Act -
-
a
food and drink, bas spent thousands : hiduce cancer in min or animal" age newspaper ads acoss the coun - - anaing of risiemd berefit. Nar does it
7035437
0087432
TIMN
