PKJ
Carcinogenesls vul 11 m 13 "SELE-IZLEdJ ro61
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butandne and benzo(a]pyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
C3420
chemopreventive agents
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amancan Health Foundation, Valhalla NY 10595, USA
models examined 01 date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the A/J mouse because previous
The purpose of this study sem to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer in smokers, Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastric gavage (i-g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a aumber of intraperitonenl injection (i.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and 7.12-dimethylbenzlbenzlalanthracene (9.10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the AJJ mouse ol evaluate the effects of forestomoch were counted. The ig. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4.11,12). Results obtained with the Al) mouse can be replicated because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injection site and associated mortality. A dose response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung turnor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 rat (11,13) mice killed 9 or 61 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect to tobacco of 24 umol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke. which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The have been expeeted extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important when given by the ig route: i.p. administrations of BaP ossess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either wcre complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted 01 use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appcars to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 umol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. in addition, the model should be relatively rapid and subdoses ig., with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore we exomined tumor yields obtained dosing. This reginen induced 10.5+4.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK ond BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 00 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethyt isothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure I). This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility Dts purity was establithed T HPLC as >997 BaP (93% purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4) They were could be used to evaluale the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirs containing sa com oil. as prev iously to play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups of 15 as summarized in Table 1 At age 7 weeks, each mouse wa kers puounnq-1-(((pu.ursomupuypou)-t (NNK*) treated by imraperitoneal (ip) injection or by intragastric gavage lig) with carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung all rodent dissolved in the o. E uned for treatment Injections and gavages were carried *Abbreviations: NNK. 4-(mcthylnitrocamino): 1-13-pyt3ybyb--bucanone: individuat dese was cee eighth of the sotal. Equimolar doses of NNK and Bat. benzolalpyrens: PEITC, pheneihyl isothiocyanaie: BITC, benzyl BaP were used in most of the combination groups, because the amounts of
whlch these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP u! combination was established in the that BaP was more tumorigenic 01 the lung than NNK
Most previous studies in the A/ mouse have examined
Comparisons of
and RaP given individually showed representatives of the lung
in tobacco smoke (I).
todby
carcinogens
We sought 9 develop a model which could be used to
5.9 + 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse is V 0.001) and completely thls study provlde a conventent model for assessing the inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens
inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
NNK pras synthesized in the American Heatth Foundation Organie Synthesis BITC 1989 purity) and PEITC (93% (Aund were ebtained from the Aldrich Chemical Cempany (Milwaukee. WI). Cottonseed oll was purchased from Female AJJ mice. age s weeks. wene obtained from The Jackson Laborstory (Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the The desiga of the bioassay is illustrated . Figure 1 The mice were divides pulmonary the appropriate chemical in 01 ml cononseed oil. NNK and BaP were borh out for 8 consecurive wecks. The toral doses are given in Table Fach NNK and total earcinogenic polyeyelic hydrocarbons ia tobacco smoke are
Sigma Chemical Co. (Si Louis, MO).
Introduction
agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
and benzo(alpyrene (BaP) (1) NNK is a isolhiocyanaie, ip. intriperitoncal, ig, introgastrie gavage.
L
o Oxford Unvenity Press
2721
