HKE2228112 SANTA BAKBARA SANTA
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
. - 2 FAPARTMI 7 - ADRE January 3, 1977 Dr. Willian H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Research rourdation 715 Kuir Lands Visto Hay La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. Fishman: and Salk.
-
LA iun 5 MM :
We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of the La Jolla rescarch coctunity. In particclar, the activities of the La Jolla Cancer Research Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establisnrent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental prublems is parti:ularly ieely. It will be 0 grot potential importance for pulling tegetter work, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, character iztaion and dotornination of the significance of hurian oncodevelopmental antigens such as alphafetoprotein and carcinoesbryonic ant ioens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship of increased serun concentrations of AFP to preralignant lesions or carcinogen exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systors clearly derion- strate tnet anirals pasocixo to hepatocarcinogens have elevated serum AFP concen- trations prior to developrant of malionant timors. It is hoped that systeretic study of huran scra frun difforect sources uill determing if serus AFr concun- In addition, the role of env rummental factors such as hormonal influences on the production of oncodevelopmenta gene prih.ts can be further explored in different sy:teas. Such data inolics Lhat (he prodiution of oixcodzvelopmental gene products by tunor cells is net a fixed property of a given tumoir but is We look fonrard to working with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the important subjec of oncodeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinogen exposure.
subject to environmertal controls.
expression. Best regards, Stewart Srll, M.D. Professor SS/nb
