Mutations in signal transduction pathways

and inherited diseases
Paolo Sassone-Corsi and Emiliana Borrelli

NOTICE THIS MATERIAL
PROTEC - a
TITLE 4

MAY BE
COPYRIGHT LAW
X00

CNRS-INSERM, Strasbourg France

Intracellular signal transduction pathways have central roles in processes
such as growth, differentiation, neurotransmission and development. The
aberrant expression of components of various signal transduction pathways
has profound consequences for cellular functions Recent findings indicate
that many cases of neoplasia and inherited diseases have, at their roots,
mutations in key steps of signalling pathways.
Current Opinion in Genetics and Development 1992, 2:455-458

Introduction

Troubles is the nucleus

A prerequisite for normal cell growth and differentiation In the nucleus, many transcription factors such as AP-1
spond appropriately to signals sent both from other cells tified as the final targets of signal transduction pathways.
and from their environment. The plasma membrane is Some of them are constituted by oncoproteins, like Fos
these elements are membrane receptors that are able to functions at the level of gene regulation, as in the cases
interact specifically with a variety of compounds. Binding of Myc, Myb and ErbA (12-). Correct transcription initia-
of a ligand to its receptor initiates a cascade of events that tion relies upon cooperation between these various fac-
trol of gene expression. By altering the spectrum of genes the regulatory activity of nuclear oncoproteins have been
a given stimulus, Aberrations in this process can lead to and as such could be considered as transcriptional anti-
nesis. Two major signal transduction pathways, which A Bupgus example of how inherited diseases and neo-
respectively, although a large number of kinases has been year. Congenital abnormalities associated with Wilms
ponents are responsible for the fine modulation of gene of inheritance is autosomal dominant with variable pen-
cupy pivotal positions in all the pathways of intracellular explained by a 'two-hit mutation model, in which the
in transducing systems can have dramatic consequences tion at homologous loci. Recently the wtl gene, which
for cellular physiology and metabolism. The past year has is located at the Wilms tumour locus (11p13), has been
seen many important advances in our understanding of cloned and characterized. = is postulated 9 be a tumour
ease. In this review we will focus on some key examples teracts with specific DNA promoter clements by means

is that each cell must be able to receive, interpret and re-
the extemal interface of the cell that bears many elements
required for the primary analysis of such signals. Among
modulate a variety of cellular functions including the con-
expressed, the cell appropriately adapts its physiology to
deregulated cell proliferation and ultimately tumourige-
use cyclic adenosine monophosphate (CAMP) and dia
cylglycerol (DAG) as secondary messengers, exist (1,23).
Each pathway is characterized by its specific protein ki
nase, protein kinase A (PKA) and protein kinase C (PKC),
identified 01 date [4). A myriad of interactions between
membrane receptors and cytoplasmic and nuclear com-
expression [5-). Significantly, oncogenic products OC
signalling [6-), graphically demonstrating that aberrations
the links between defective signal transduction and dis-
that represent paradigms of this phenomenon.

(7-), NF-XB (8), CREM [-6) and SRF (10) have been iden-
and Jun for AP-1 [7-), and Rel for NF-XB (11). Yet other
oncogenic products have been found 9 have important
tors (13-). UI uopippe proteins that negatively modulate
found to respond to various signalling systems [14,15),
plasia can be associated with a specific transcription fac-
tor defect concems the disease Wilm's tumour (16-). In
the "vsn among children under 16 years of age, there
are 350 new cases of Wilms' tumour diagnosed every
tumour include aniridia, hemihypertrophy, malformation
of the genitalia and neurofibromatosis (NF). The mode
etrance [17). In the past, this kind of neoplasia has been
loss of a functional gene product resulted from muta-
suppressor gene and encodes a nuclear protein that in-
of a zinc finger-containing domain (16-). The Wilms'

oncogenes.

Abbreviations

CAMP cyclic adenosine monophosphate, CF-cystic fibrosis: CFTR- a transmembrane regulator,
ansuodsal-dwva elements: DAG diacylglycerol; GAP- CTPase-activating protein, G-protein CTP-binding protein;
NF-neurofibromatosis, PKA - protein kinase A; PKC protein kinase C WT-Wilms tumour.

a Current Biology Ltd ISSN 0959-437X

455

2031367951