HKB2223022

Life Sciences Vol 15. pp- 1291-1300
Printed in the 1 A.

Ferganon Press

METAROLISH à BENTO (alPYRENE BY KICROSONES FRON
TIFFVES or PRECOUNT AND FITAL HAMNTERE
Irene h Mang, Ronald E. Rasmunsen, and : Timothy Crockar*
Can a Research Inatitute, Untveraity of California, € Franciaco, and Depart-
-ent of Community ard Environnantal Medieine, Univeraity of California, Irvine*.
(Received in final form 26 August 1974
Sumary
Pretreatment of hansters with benzo (a)pyrene (BaP) grestly Incressed
3 51 vitre artabol in of Par by lung alerosonns from prognant han
atare, and p I eftect on the metabolim of Bal F iiver miere-
aomee. The produetion of various metaholites of Bar by lung niere-
sonos war inereaned to different axtentar 3-hydroxy-na? (3-CH-BaPi
was one of the najor nataboliten the netabolic yielde of 9,10-
dihydrodihydroxy-mar (9,10-diol) and 1,0-diol vere Increasod hore
than that ef the 4,5-diel. to : i of liver nicrosonao, only the
yields of 9,10-diol and 7,8-diol ware increased ovar the control
levels, The presence of eyclohexene oxide in the incuba tion -
turea decreaned the production of the diole. Dasal-level anryme
activities in placental, fetal liver, and fetal akin microsones in
metabolizing RP vere very lov. Pretren thent of pregnant hainatars
with RaP indaced BaP-net taholieing enzymes in total tisrue 2 fold.
Banso (alprene Dati ie . carcineser and environmental cont . nant that is
found in coal tar, nineral oil, car exhaust, tohacco saoke, anoked foods, ete.
(1). In yitro stadiee shoved that netabolie activation of Bar is required for
ite intaraction vith proteins and nuclele acide (2,m Farller studies with
: livar pr aparations :4,5) and harater liver micron - à (6,7) shoved that bar
le metahelised mainly 8 phenolie and dihydrodihydroxy talell der "seapanay. and
to quinomes which are ensynatie or air oxidation peoducte of unatable phenolie
netabolitas (4,5) as well : some unidentifiod nore polar netabolites. The
metabolies of Bat has generally been neamured la the production of 3-hydroxy-
BaP (3-ON-RaP) wich ie often ons of the major metalol ites in Ganta (3). 3-OH-
DaP ie tosic to cultured calle (9). i it shovs very 11etle interaction vk th
DNA in vitro (6) 2 has not been shown to % carcinocenic. & the other hand,
K-region tpowides ef velate polycyelle aronatic hylrocartons (PAN)bind to cell-

1291