True-Talse Questlons on the Chenistry and Psychophyslology, of Odor and Flevor 1 T Sone nodorn workers suggest that nocurate mensurement of vibrattonal frequency (in the far Infrared, for exanple) of an unknown odorant wili permit prediction of its quellty and intensity. - No elenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone hos any odor; Instead they react with the mucose fonning new products whlch are smel Iled; but T Sone odorants have sterle or vibrational propertles which force the cone luslon thet they are odor less whon they are not. Present evidence strongly suggests thet different parts of the of factory receptor aren, Ilke the retina In the eye, are que itty-specific. H Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor T No one yet has a fire clue as to the criticol reletion between the molecule and the receptor uhich pernits an odor perception. 1 The greater the secretion rate of muco . - or sellve, the hl gher their "Hd and both pH end tomperature influence the quallty of sensation in the 111. - The idenl Instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sane quantitative range as doos an en Ima or human subject. TF Such en Ideat detector hes not been developed. Iv. 1 a Ihman observors with head In fixed position can by virtue of the two Indopondent nostriis easily discern stereo sasll effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier he odorant is of the right or left hand, andh es one uses hts two ears in locating the source of a sound. - For certaln musk-liko conpounds, forty molecules ere sufficlent to trigger - hunon offact ory response. Adnptation to coo olfactory Qun lity does not significant ly reduce sensitivity to any other dissiel lar quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all sinllor quelities. - By employing a slmliarities nethod of conpering qualities, one con now obtain Ident ity and degroes of difference without rocour se to troule- VL I Hunger louers thresholds slightly to some food qualit ies but not for - It is now possible to identlfy the Intensity and quality of a certain given stimull sinply by expert examination of the electrophysiological record taken from approprlate odor or taste neur ons. T Electrical stimulation of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkaling quality. TF Direct electrical stlmulation of the olfactory sense has never yet beon successfully eccompllshed. VII, TF Although total anosela is rore In humans and egeusia even rarer, there is evidence that in analogy to color vision deficiences, some people are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities whi le hoving normal sensitivity to others. TF Topical anesthetics applled to the tongue show that different quellties TF Certain endocrine diseese entitles make = possible for sone people quite sensitively to "smell" such "odor less' substances os sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to noneel by eanlpulation of endocrine levels. TF de onenopausel wonon at the time of ovulation find certain odors extreme ly disegreeable whlle at other rines In the menstrual cycle these seme odon
sone elements possess taste.
I1,
sur face In order to be see led,
chemicel senses.
v.
5030 words. others.
of taste dis sappear : different rates.
they will Judge quite pleasant.
Ori
