DAILAS MORNING NEWS
Dallas, Texas
April 14, 1954

Tobacco Firms Ask
New Cancer Studies
representing growers and tobacco
tional" statements linkdng smoking Among those quoted by the com-
and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer
Inatitute of the United States Gov-
relationship of ernment, which said in a 1953 i
cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of cancer
for exhaustive research to estab- had not been established. lung Several
lish the basic cause of the disease. of the institute's scientists also
The tobacco industry research were cited.
Others quoted were the Damon
issued a booklet con Runyon Fund, which
taining previously published state: more research, and called for
Chicago à
thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgeon Dr. Max
who
Cutler,
doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons may
by olher cancer experts that tobac- develop lung cancer partly because
of smoking but that to accept the
The earliest, whitten in 1923, sald conclusion of a direct
there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientitic relationahip
none that would produce turnors. hazardous."
and
The most recent; dated last March F smoke in the
16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of lungs were a
be done before causes of lung can- have had it long '080 cancer, the we'd all
cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report
Littie,
The tobacco committee, formed Mernorial Laboratory, Bar Har-
S January to combat mounting bor, Maihe.
charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the
up of nearly every major cigarette University of Texas School of Medi-
nanufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Inaur

NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco
Industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers.
alded picture of the
committee
ments by
itiès
co causes lung cancer.

be
can established.

director of the Roscoe B. Jackson
ance Company and British author-
itles, Neariy all those quoted
agreed that no conclusions çould be
reached until an absolute cause for
lung cancer has been established
The report was described by an
industry spokesman as an "in-
terim" statement, pending an-
nouncement of the choice of R
prominent scientist to supervise
basic cancer research de be f-
nanced by the industry. That scien-
tist will decide how the industry' a
cancer-research money is to be
spent. No date has been set for his
selection.
At the Jast count, the committee
said; there were more than 850
cancer research grants in the
United States
alone, "any one of
which might produce
unlock the
evidence to
secrets of lung cancer,