100 East End Avanue Ncw York, Now York 10028 Telophone (212) C28-6300
Foundation
OFFICERS AND BOARD CF TRUSTEES David 4. Mahoney, Chairman President Nortan Siman, Inc. Emest L Wynder, M.D., President Thomas J Ross, Jr, Sacretary Vice President Amarican Airiines, Ine. Warner o Cosgrova. Jr., Traasurer Partner MBANCA2 Shieics Company Trustees: Louis v. Aronson, II Prasident Ronson Corporation Mrs. Charias A Dana Frederie c. Dacker Presicent Dacker Communicatiens, ine. Walter Senior ui Panner Harson Paat, Marwick, Mitchell 4 Ca. George James, M.D. Dean The unon Sinai School of Medicine Willam . Levis Chairman of the puncs Lewit & Sons, Inc. G. WCiam Meore Pres.cant Fielderes: Milis, ine. JOSECEMM Murtha Sandgran d Murtha, Ine. Robart Maxwall R. M. Pauley Ribb Partner Stroock & Stroock de Lavan Erecutive David L Davies. Vite Presidant Javits a Javits Ganoral Counset
American Health
July 7, 1970
G. F. Todd, Esq. Tobacco Research Council Glen House, Stag Place London, s.w.1 England
Dear Mr. Todd:
In recent talks with Dr. Carl G. Baker, Director of the National Cancer Institute, the desirability of forming an international study group concerned with research into tobacco and health problems was discussed. This letter is to invite you on behalf of your organization to participate in this The proceedings will aim at providing the relatively few active investigators in tobacco and health research programs with an opportunity to discuss freely current and future research programs with the intent of reaching common objectives nore quickly. The group will be composed of investigators primarily involved in tobacco and health research oriented towards producing less harmful smoking products. The partici- pants must be both willing and able to share with other investigators what is being learned from their current activities and openly discuss plans for future research in the field. It is thought that by bringing such a group of experts together to review ongoing studies and to plan future investigations jointly less harmful tobacco products will be available sooner and costly research projects will not be duplicated unneces- sarily. The meetings would be held at yearly intervals with the different organizations acting as host.
information and study group.
