LOS ANGELES TI:ES
Los Angeles, California
October 20, 1054
E
been proved.
lale

harel uudn the premise that hination n' a partirular type
a nection hetween riea in each nf he three categories
Tel smoking and disease 2 has alrcady produced a sale
Might Take Six Monthe one : is. so all can be made
Dr. E. Cuyler Hammond. that way. Ifnot. the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Carence Cook Litte.
compiete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad-
date, said that "some say we visnry bnard and scient fic di-
tive evidence before develop- try Research Committee. de.
ing a safe cigarette. but no ies which he helieves wonld
nne has said just what the de produre some nl the defni
finitive es idence weud be." iive evidence" to winch Dr
Hr sand he "took issue' with Hammond referred.
In his talk 1n the Ameriran "We wiil tarkle

JI S
cigarette.
seientific re-
search should prove which
should find one, "since peo-
ple like to smoke cigarettes."
rector o: the Toharro Indus-
seribed uhe outlines nf stud-
Tackle Unknewns

Calls
Safe
Cigareffes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming

Expert
for

University atatistician
should wait for

more defini-

NEW YORK. Ort 61 ALPI this viewnoint.

The rvidenre connecting cig- Canerr Society meeting. Dr eously manv of the unknowns simultan
arette smoking with hoth Hammond said the relation- in this feld of tobacen use up
lung cancer and heart dis. ship nf rigare:te smoking to relation to human health, a
ease is "ourrw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out-
something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitive
once about developing "a safe health, than the relationship findings in an area where
cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer 1 program to murh suggestive work has
cal scientist told the annual find "a aafe cigarette from heen done. The program of
meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recngnizes tha: we
Tobacco Industrv Research Inhacen, there are varinus relationshin hetween rri Frin-
Committes anaounced some oftypes n: fiters, and there are mental factors, including
the details nf itk sciemific re- arinn terhn'ques > euring The most important

system was more important, line of the industrv's research
migh: prove surcessful in six do not have todav the experi
months, with iuck," he said menta! evidence that : nrr-

Cancer Society today.
At the same time the scien-
tific advisory board of the
srarrh program a a eh is he thar

Outlines Described
There are various types C
tobaren, he Raid, and it may
some fortunors rom-
SOT ANGELES EXAMINER
los Ange les, California
October 20, 1954

mit scientific eonclasions 17
garding the
and Ffert
rause
smnkire and lune cancer
nroeet
set up was a direet udy C
eurrent lung cancer rase: J
10 medical centers ins :he i a
ed States and Canada,

It will Include numerous
studles of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers,
as well as tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. The apecifio research
grants, financed Aq the TIRC,
arill be announced later.

HEALTHSTUDY
ON TOBACCO
YORK, Oct. 19 $
< broad stx point study seek
Ing knowledge whether eigarets
or other forms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health haz.
ards was announced today,
It is the first announcement
of - big research proxram
headed & the sclentifie ad-
visory board of the Tobacco In
dustry Rese reh Committee

NEW

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062