BOULDER DATLY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

a

Area stores

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For tha Delly Camera
nors.
kids.
kar

refercing to the Increased enforce-
were issued a summons-
penally tor selling tobacco to. a m
paus to aill.Ang cigaretles. The

mont.

Boulder police stung 11 busl-. Store clerks unlucky enougb.to
down on selling cigarettes 01 mi- LUBMALDE appoar UI court. Tho maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve horis a 00ZS fine.
of the American Cancer Soclety's The Suna. involved two tcams.
Great American Smokeout. was in- Each included u uniformed omcer.
tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain clothes omcer: and two
legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High Schoolgirts, Who
Police targeted gas stations, con: girls" parents signed a waiver al-
vënience, drug, grocery and dis. lowing them to talce part up thc.op:
"Taw has neverbeen enforced, said The Juvenlles ware told not to
Boulder Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
"We're letting the stores know had 6 show identification.

nesses this week during a crack-

courit stores. Until recently, the eratlon.
this is going to happen, ohc sald,

the cigarettes. and, if asked, they
(Sce DOULDER, Page 3C)

Boulder police sting stores '
for cigarette sales to minors
At the Conoco atation, 3000 2020 Broadway, pegan 01 cry
28uh Sl, one of the girts asked when sho was issued - um
the cashler for a pack of Mart oussugu coid abg WRS a stu
boro Lights. Officer Rob Hauke- dent and couldnt ROR DE
ness, In plain clothes, poojs up court costs. HAlikëness poul to
-Ine hehind her to witness thç 0103000 her, saying she coulu-
A placard near the cash regis. the Distriet Attorney to do com a
ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity ecrvice Instracof paying
clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clorka, not thc store OWTH
cation. Thc buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the
she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it to usund
cd at the license, set it down on stores or clerks, she said. "Al-:
the counter, and sold her the though, when you scc clerks cry:
Afler they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted 15:
up and identified him Lotoros and cler 2 al all bur four
"When I see them ask for an year. Tha first sting, conduoted. stine
E I think they're going to re- 51 September, targeted 16 stores
fuce the cale,' Haukeness sald. und ST clerks received Rum:

(From Page (OT

The clerk at Colony Market,.

transaction.

prububly work out a dealwith-

No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the fne,
drlver's licensé, Which showed court costs.

cigarettes.
stepped
summons.

ing, you inight think otherwise. *
recelved summonses.
punnos tobacco sale
monses.

03 a police officer. Manka
came In and wTote the clerk a This wock'n
"But they never do."

operation was the.
this:
: