Polluted Data
by Samuels. Epstein The auhor survevs the record of industri-generated data Lualang a wlen . shun 2 onstams un data- from Khun enbapru - based merpretation, ma mpulatam. suppresshm and : lex outright de. NEm INM -are commonpla e esper iall when pruhtahle les hralugirs are mohed Alarmengh. Mnh a dens e INN jumhes strong reservations as 01 the aluln of an data developed hv institumons or indn uluab whunr nomm intetests are dueith or Informatun 1 the runem of e onumk and puban al jumer Denen-making at all leveh of gm. etument sunkinant the a alalainity of a buds of H lurmation, SHI the han ol W hik h the relative merits ul ahernate puln C an ) I red and unsidered If thn mlun matum en data base is 3 nished un inal ul. then whatert de DHRIS JTE teau hed saus alsube unpri un malul. threatenng the laben of demar The un 1 whr hmang talk a all beneht and usk data. im uhn h numl regulate des Isims are based. un Irem ihr muluntr nes themuhes bemg regulat. a Ihre data are ethet generated and mter perted HR and unnerser undes comm . le mdustn a HER and sah onu presures
melurs th atle ted
LIJIN MENT rinneut
à au ave :
Bunh intes thn paxes n asadre of innsultanis, maitutes, whuse duew ul appen al prmi ides the h identirs of these tonsulata are often hidden new
In m-hunr M urutitu stall in In tommere a Labuta generall from presiguan unneruties or resranh In-hume wentith mall ane IKH mmune to un dana wnh an addunmal munile of auther itv Thr and devehpornent and markemg departments. any unk fram the puhlu bul alu from ther oun unn C HMM le hun then produ m jEim € mtn un utw ut insumutern The mulunaral metests of thev nurine Indunarul mona h al e unall Jw anded 4 imsuhm ate eshet ne diulned to the agen ies urih lu une = 3 labun aturs and unn raume nas 15 hune athure and rapen tommittees thes SH. halunut 1 hav mg hust lern wh ned mn the uprn in - de hns d JIS usualh mamt. paur m sonbdentul temila 1 to 3 IUR unumune to unguken preaur Constrame in thr (irnnation d Dele and HLIV Hiwhn mien matum a met prutwm The nunt mun problem hnh mdentrull gen. mustem hah wha aue pruened a the mtriess ul erated data 1 av Junn quales Derph niw rmed in muhnun rirn theugh thn hmmed thr malenan d dau submated in 1957 In the petepthn a mete hkeh lo retier shue ie m tath- Tiwnl and Dhng Admant atenn (FDA) In mduun Summet - han . Irul far d ate wathal anJrn Hanmen lewerl addene petawn at gmall suhmmed les the
isru
from teseare
unuvent with ethun the
at a len au hntet in diav n frm the held al IN uputwmal and enurommental 1.110 a
market, . pin IK . hardh stompenne tapmalan the runa mg
bb lat's kwk
Ihe un à tes raget In the - l futur en than ke K LE in mtese 7 and alurs hul 1 - af de f e 1 ifeult unrah a 18 Foux! and an Motunt un 15 Aun Ar 5 il Siersa L hut Fur ali pahnh bn In l'e denmationg hn paut It
in muldns a haul addane petitiom then (nm sinnri Heilet Le omplamed Almnt hall d the Admmanatum hare hern in € pleve in har int alequiel parukle, shr regula and the irtur hune
- Dug huthn Itel inparted
a
suhur tepmed
