BOULDER DAILY CAMERAL Nov. 27, 1994
Area stores
SAI
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For tha Delly Camera "gaor kids. ker,
referdng to the Increased enforce- penalty lur Humas tobacco oor m pau: B Anq. "tlie cigarelles. The the cigarettes. and, if asked, they (Sce DOULDER, Page 3C)
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busl- Store clerks unlucky oFqanous nesses this week during a crack. get'caughtwere issued. Lsummone- doum on selling cigarettes to ml- to appoar ur court. The maximum The sting. conducted on the eve horis a $200 fine of the American Cancer Soclety's The Hupa involved two tcams. Great American Smokeout, was In- Each included u uniformed omcer. tended 01 educate clerks that it's il- a plain clothes officer puu omi legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School girts, Who Police targeted gas stations, -005 girls' parenis signed a walver al- venience, drug, grocery and **p lowing them to take partinthc.op: "lay has never beeri enforced, said The Juvenlles wero told not to JOPINOAL Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "We're letting the stores know had to show identification.
"Couri stores. mun, recently, the eratlon. this is going to happen,' ahc sald,
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors At the Conoco atation, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry 28uh SL, one of the girts asked when she was jéshed ESU the cashler for a pack of Marl mons, ous cald 040 was 7 stuy boro Lights. Oflicer Rob Hauke- Juap. and couldn't plone "hu ness, In plaln clothes, p0019 In court costs. HATIKEness pou) A "the-hahlnd her to witnese thç oontore hor, saying she --nos A placard near the cash regis. the Distriet Attorney to do cam ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity acrvice Inatcad of paying clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clerks, not the store own- cation. The buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the. she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'L do k to .usiund cd at the license, sel it down on stores or clerks,' she said. the counter, and sold her the though, when you 000 clerks "Al-: After they left, Haukeness Roulder Police targeted 15: stepped dn and identified him storos and clerks at all but four eelf 03 a police officer, Manka recelved summonses. came In and wrote the clerk A Thic wock'a operation was the. "When I Net them ask for an year. The first sting, condueted E I think they're going to 2 in Soptember, targeted 16 stores: esnt the cale," Haukeness sald. und SI clerks received sum
(From Page 1C)
The clerk at Colony Market,
transaction.
prubably work out a deal-with-
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the nne, drlver's license, which shownd court costs.
cigarettes. summns.
ing, you might think otherwise. cry: - punass tobacco sale stine this
"But they never 8
monses.
