TATINGERIGHT

New! Improved! Dangerous?

41A More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium, Experts Fear Thric Reactions

B, Arazan Lasuna
Givini a The Endington Aar
hend el onreal -
A taous
kunchese ham - cheese sand-
an and . conple et wgetables topped with
monorine, holuwed ar dally Enalivita REFAKFAST
win - pill kor nutritional innerance.
The while watching TV la the evenkg
laltee (olas, a cap) s ke arean Sounde - on pelekmatiel Mine Mala onaler 3,00
pretr innonale, rigur
Actually. depending 06 the hrants you LUNCH
danite yuca dan's naca: conld net you te Mamant chees dune
tween 3000 ary 3.300 miligras of cald
am sigaticantly mee the à "Ralewable
Upper lanake Level" of 2,500 milimans a
ley the the National Aradeng et Skienees AFTERNOON SNACK
(NAS) Sin many Food isre now ketilied with
calelur itut a Nat beese Pach easber a
snet the salety Neat At that hus and et DININE
withon remetare ounoernal.
"Ar wh anything Lee 1 on be
adea Richard Wood, chet of and
crudent "Ninamablity Laborniory 11 the
lensan Nutrition Research Center - The
University in Boeton. "The wadow betwege
autimal intabe and the upper line a rebr
levely small a ladeed, the adequele intaler
rataftinat by the NAS a 1,000 to 1,300mil 1cup Drear Calchum Ridh vanilia ke cream
Tama dat depending en agn. Oil bwice cost martad - Glant and Safeent
that "ylnot and you ve reachod the salety
ocling Fur marg other eutrienta, Jean TOTA
lave ba heroane the alegate lutake enan
time hefore maching rists levels
What can happes a 300 bake le 300 mach
ralciuis over Gme? Woed 300 there have
beun en the order a 130 cand reports" ot cal
clen
torkcity, whkh can mantes ltarif a a Numme
pertups Joie anne a the hanetion.
the milacrul a can
cated,
stone Rurmatin,
muna
dueed via balme
- ne

mudh moes calsium than a lunat of ala
real enntalan 300 to 400 mtional of de
or course, sne Pardurla Weaver fur pen
nier wetting nel 200 to 400 miliprams
at calcura daily. the corral P stia R us
Au. Anl a loi ed people do at ond at
1 Waod condre "H you don't bre-k
milt, your calelum comanption le alamt
300 le 400 miligrams da hr novs
* . rule al thumb peaple shooki
wash the exocption of Ileancy. ibout de
es archera agrce that it's palcat mot tn par
04 une than 2.300millmat fealchim
daily, regardbe n veriations a abeorption
ratca "Count up Woaver ays. # 4
pole nr gring adve 2
Wod any LSar staylng withla dir Tral t
partinilar concern in houschald with by
tridur trying ea Mrl more calcium and N
leenage son sto already gets plenty he
abeer diat of the amount of food lhe cats, sa
- Inn . clamfurtilied annup julee, al
citat -fortied A cereal and en on but
be guardes mili a Lulee en 2 le amtainei
- knelell practire ar I a coutpl n
bowle at ochn a an afterschoul aunc *
could I be
rhossieds of
Lr
gelung
Figame ofcalchal
Wood and other reserchers abe aumo
ear an brat 60 pet your calcium from . nat
à at fixeds rather thin 000 or two heavily
furtifsed one pref dul a kast sour of *
sbould rome foon milk and other dairy
prout
wota "Ilisturight, Weaver explin
apt ebo have Lost deficient in radcium
LA
Leen low in manesinm ribolavin, vitami
I vitamin D: 1 mailale in nrk
was kdnd nl oncatop shupperg ke
par
that fust with Nad conew
too macerned
Jeme Hort, mineral reserarcher at Pr
proterted aust be
companter
Aad it's weakroed lay toe Fet vitamin

A Calcium-fortifled Day
3/4 ne lotal carea
sup adrum-ladi cad aus en
2
200 a
1o Beiles choed
Wastur Fagtia 2
N.tr Obin bar
en akties ducker Lrast
1/2 cap hrocce tapped with
a Sheds Semal Cruzery Crock P Caktum
balued potate, tapped we
- the Shedfs Seread Courey Rail Phenkan
toreninationaterant
EVENING SNACK
te ne

The calician meommendation for teenage le 00E maigrams adells 10 age sn,
LOOD milligrams: pal adults Slelus, 1.200 miligrans. Het with the douena of
calkelure fortifint foods 00 the markel an - to commte den

mineral,
more 2,500
- en caurnar ratea
Lood
110
350
00
know
300
120
272
10.
150
un
200
de
22
1
162
GOO
260
30
1,487
LE
people Wewer

a

today,

at fralived le a sancl r le the milligram Obe Tulorable Upper Intake Lod 14 tn the Natkal Acaleny at
late altorman. AA disser, annit beelor chick Selence von en diet of eely pogrr caluries, Chred qut Ihe Allumu mum

- aral Buse Metaball-ar Lab at Tulla, dils package af netrants N H a a
ecreal. "Tar's an exceanive devel ether substanns freen coldum Sortiled

thow. disales and molt theue callination. CHP- - that calicant Fortifiel boodi mmass She alus qunatline the LOON pa I a lade m dimeuA ar ans a a
Thr Menan made et and theue, * br are cosonable eptlon 15 Caver the coneept luman of cralum nnar I te every serv inx Se at cakhan bet ma mresaaily dese
lhon. tos, Appercalcenals. as toxicly et Omaha And 1 Wood, be' not partic an mpreendentel kwel, probubly higher Indn Rosenberg director et the Nutri
have had atre Chendarly the part Ton marh cald wthn coesume lots mnre than Ithe) Till Al, L na à the quaka a the holy's abrintion thn a singhe nutrient will le people intu
an can alan podece abaurytian et two other claima Some populations who depend or a 2 cale at A writ abeori -are calcitm it thinkagr Iher re nostishiag thereelves abe
cululminerals trou anit rine. the tatter a largely sn dary diet. vad av conterds ir you hare didted doees thrunghout the day quately. "Ve dont get of the hank of 1
wtich h pociean lor wouud bralleg and Eax Alrica and the Larps the lare reladeer 3 a That's wley pourk who tabe Guo ax praleur dictary cholces because you à
pruper Gesetlonk a the isenune gniten a northern Scandinia, "lypicaliy ge 6,000 millipants' worth of calkum applewnits pacledone en teo heavily Cartified hodi a
aperusarlet sbelves rabcs the Fur inntanue. Deeyer's in num tout natket I that the cakelon in the cereel e Fr denalty a aba strengahened la exerdung he
Not Uhr Wood thinks eale cium-fortified 21 calchem per lulleup instead of the typical every 300 mitimm al ralcium consturd % I is neceary for caliclum absorp
I area bad reing "Frink ther E agond 100 matigram and Heancy remarks Ty (the amount le a on et reak the bodu ab thin- - pertaps he 000 much sodjus an
F be Muya. Averna letakes are much mixed fortine on the juek faxe sital morbs ton miticrams, oc poughly 30 precent. calletar. Boe alninlances www au ftes the
be arre www 20 Ee 29 years <41 avenur AAde Cenale Vienver calchin levestiga che ahrorption rate saon I I you hase A other weda, as Mous peats it. "calet
only abot 7u miligrams et caliclum dal tor at Pardue Univerally le Weat Lalayette, three to Form cupe a: collk in one Nater un h only ene part et the 1 1 he
wlarn thry shoul Nr cunisier 1.00 mit le Tdhate 60 aee people sur the p-1-233 1 entains about 1000 milligans T comp you ve I harl à Total doesn
Jeraun And wasen a pue older, who needingtoget 10000 calcium teeal koes duicalles to 11 preent dueut 150 a moin voes à morted all à houe
lee in outy about lely Unt a can 10 12 alm problem whlla making another ann lpree can arving mpplics 1,ANXX milligana, yea Ecting Nighr columini Laarena
rdtern Inver an the and a ax a 3 unil ite Deneun Haghew chief at the Calci Indther sainde yus A net absathing limibly Univrait JAralik M Nidrith

perticularly ninemble. he reema, and a betificution, site Robert Heana eaks

um researcher at Creiston Liniversity in Confificatium, str comments. a certalaly fooda

N

I ularty concerned about anyon L ove dan a and ocher cadelum lurtal Bood tion powerch Center at TULA laparticulurt

people who I "There are lote of Tyery beakhy

ha MLAOR res rvationa, be

- had study a det emonausal www to 00022 millins ed cakelum per le arel de Fre alviset tr - thre tha 300 say
a Warl mports "High-calcin ditts a have "absolutely so problems, le enys millipram palls a deiferent nacab
While sach penblems bave tea rare and about 444ch 600d abe autor- smerations o to condaded houndlatility tealing Ax Theal's voul bones
dinet el thri heaming Tarare commen ing le eruam thel contalon 300 migrans I pret a wellas theenkin in mle. Nov
Aland he antiling 1.300 mititerame ar tak a Gr and calorles. Then you're solving oee larams, a the I wall the Total Since

Far he andothers do have sone

Heas . desetrated the paint sther he de prister cat tuo the nat door cer Faxe
prodiner General Mme Oe one land, cause you Te griting a of culduni. rue
Ilut as due coldun a ( ma iner an mineral from the bale via Lhe urlac
abarb seh aluat 160 ar thrat, Heaney sign Lindner cenviry entre S hath

suw, Lhe plethora - calcium -dortined Beum addod to
mach lowe Mun abe reconnendellers F LE

an stery for nen althoush abe set for then Imare ed obeattyl I