INVINIONS FILTER SNIM 2D [Another
New York Times March 1, 1968 Page 34
Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs to Use It By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pall Mall of Canada, "pri the second-larg. est cigarette sompany in that country, contracied yesterday with the Strickman Foundation op pay a penny a pack royalty for use of the filter incented by Robert L. Strickman. The company, which is 30 per cent British-owned, but Canadian-managed, sells 12 bil- lion cigarettes a year, very few of them in the United States. The agreement was the second S two days with the founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Cornpany of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company, with annual salcs of more than 18 billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. Strickman, was surrendering its rights to the filter to the foundetion. The university said ie had "made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering a highly con- troversial end competitive com- mercial field." Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financlal the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to it last summer by Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set dn on Wednesday byl: the New Jersey chemist as a charitable institution "to ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has, received $200,000 in advance royalties. According to Robert > Katz, the unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts cauld eventually bring E about $5 million a yeartn rosalties. Mr. et Jawyer who. Is secretary Seagram's Distil- Katte leries, said that Rothman's Pall plall of Canada hed been test- ing the Strickman filtor since last August. Wilmat Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman's, said of the device: "We are sctistied that! nothing exists gives comparelle Filtratlon without APRIDADE affecting the flavor of the cigarette. . takes out 'more suspect ele- ments withia the cuniext of ac- ceptable (lavor, we fcel that as cigarette ishnuld 5 -
Claims Are Disputed The claim that the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ling cigarette flavor has boen a subject of controversy. Among the most outspoken critics of the filter has been F Ecnator Warren G. Magnuson No Washington, who has con- tended that its claims have been greatly exaggerated. Manul, many governmental and privale health reports by experts have called cigarette tar and hicotine health hazards, Columbia University, in a re- port on thè Shickman filter made publiç un Wednesday, avoided making 2 conclu- So far no United Slates ciga- -frette companies are beliaved to be close to a contract fox the filter. Experts say that dones- tic companies need not fear competion in this country from the Canadien cigarettes because of a 15-cent import duty on each package. Pall Mall cigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana- dian concern.
sions.
stake in
rescarch.
2. de which
1002617799
ny we
