09180
.AAP
: : a
Relative Hepatotoxicity of Some Industrial Solvents after Intraperitoneal Injection or Inhalation Exposure in Rats INGVAR LUNDBERG, MARIANNE EXDAHL. TONY KRONEVI. VITAUTS LIDUMS, Rearena Deparmel, National Mar- ef Oreen S-Jery sed Nr. L S-17 &4 Salan. Sweden Intruperitoneal LD, cleilal dose 30A kie relue - mimilal liver tous doss in ! Spragut-Dewley ruls - deseming for Ihe 1 auninal Halvse loluene. 1 a - L in hluroethant inchlore eshykne, cthanal met rity aune ar and Fee she kee-nan - LC. I . a - des a unne Husne chloro form. frie charoeshykne - amethylforman uMP The Hru activa of the se ay wrbitel dehydrogrand (SDHX : used . 1 - am A Tra damage Carboe idire chloride chlorufurm and DMF **Pelens kn dan cumpared le 9 values 41 se and X I Charaferm and DMP LE à 4 abulation caposure S value apprusmentiy we end 140 I Even relatively 1 doses ed the - selve 4 net ause the sue clivity Signifkani direci imetabe à nediated hepalotonical) aerm to be n - common lealtur emer commonily vyed The hepatoloxicity of some industrial sulvents. especially carbon tetrachloride and chloroform har been exlensively studied Lkata concerning liver loxicity can be found also for marfy other solvents Huwever, the liver loxicity hat in only few çases been studied relative to alter eflests uf the sulvents In occupational medicinc this I of information is of 4 me value 43 cliects wat aignificance for the estahlahment ul threshold lanul vitur are st par licular interest Sever al methals ha a been used le cyabuale tus lever damage in caperimental animals. delemmater of different lue cnd your a uvilier in serum A raised activity of such enzymes is causru by increased leakage of the enzymes through the cell membrane but I is uncertain hethr this kakage is € in en inevi- table develupment of cell necru (Zammerman, 1976) However, thr cnzyme analyses provide heller quantative estunalcy E the extent of necrosis and are casier lo perform than microscopical ammatiqn of tissus preparations Though limited necrosis can only be detected microscopic ally certain enzymes are highly sensitive for liver cell necrosis Korsrud et et 0972 1973) have shown that sor- bitol dehydrogenase (SDH)" is such an cnzyme. In studies where different € Abbreviations uved DMF dimethylformamide sund sorbits dehydrogenase, ALAT alanine aminotrunaleraut LD. lethal dose XFA ka LC. iet cal retke XX E TD soak doe E TC, a tox con smiration sox Throughous the I ways onis % - solvenupcand et - refer to volume percent. The relume lese aner minturs . neglecied.
AND STINA LUNDBENO Breaived Max 1964
ykne chboride carten tetrachbarid : sre and minimul hver Wak er concen (TD, (BORK duse , a à à 1 wer heputonx - comparatively k a (TC, (lunie C uatrial solventa .
INTRODUCTION
411
goulin a - .
2501661843
