LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday March 20, 1977
ALOOKAFTESTS uo:uegel Saccharin: lowl BOBEFT Ttmes le bence wrter -Does it make 5 nse 8 ban a popula food additive on be strength of what happens when hundred rats and their oifsprings eat a additive in bug: doses? 11 The Calorie Contral Coumeil Inc. A. Ananta thinks nat. a trade argani- catin whose $ 0,000 annual budgat. comes trom manufacturers A. dietary food and drink, bas spent thousands ofdollars in thelast few days for fuil- page newspaper ads across the coun berating th: Food and Drug Ad- ministration for its decision 6 ban saccharin. - the oniy nonnutritive- sweetener curreatly on the market. 30ven the EV A is willing 8 admit there's a basic diference between - rats and humar a one a ad in the TEAL Street Journal:observed. S,AI- 1 another PT mpie A, the art matire ot big
To judge by the torrent of a t the FDA'has received, a sizable por- tion the. calorie-counting public agres Long accustomed 6 a cross fire at criticism from industry and consumer activists, the FDA has been - by, citizen demands 3 liber- ate saccharin And moves are afoot 5 Cangress b amend the. Food. and Drug Actaum X in 1 1* : There's-bee tremendeus.cutery from all:aver the country," # EDA spokesman 5 Washington said: a raages from anguish to anger. We've. never been this busy. a 2 a The FDA: for its part: says it was only doing what the law required. d the law-specifically the Dela- ney. clause Congress inserted. in the Food and Drug Act im 1958 says that:1 poo-flocd) additive shall be deemed to. A safe Et it is found after tests a which are areudoade for the evaiua- tion of the safetyaf food additive: duce cancer E man 8 animal" "hé clause does:not allaw fora bal Supu of zisir and benefit. Nar does à didire . the: ban tar be: based or ridence at. cance
of bésteged
the logic of this law may : seem 3 the general public, medical researchers say. that the animal A a periments upancwhich such regilato are baséd do a sen- decisions have sibler rationale- -andi that they - bavé a direct:bearing on risk a bu- mans. 3 saitis true, resea aze thaftherats "at thecenter of this fur ore consumed each day the saccharin equiralent of Arlnar 1,0000 cans of - lowicalorie soit drink But they-con- sidèrit not dishonest to A-Supropsyu as the calorie counell bas, that suggest. F disparity makes the research 8. humans. trelevant who drink one I a Paople a P a saccharia soft oniy drink run a comparably lawer risk of cancer. But fo a of 213 million pecple, the population collective haza E cauld still add . a de sever ar cases of blad dercancer: ast foreover scier à note rat
2
-
7035437
0087432
TIMN
