2AP

AMERICANJOURNALOF
Public
Health

Editorial
Volume 77 Number
AMre- I MD. MPH

May 1987 Eatablished 1911

EDITOR Less Hazardous Smoking and the Pursult of Satistaction
Cigarelles deliver drugs: at roet smoking in drug laking Scentahe wurk 2
confrmed air otine a1 . powertully reinforcing psychoactive drug Fax the can um
ASSISTANT EDITO er. then, ulra low -yicld cigarelles raise the simple issue of Jrug cutting a
I 1. Rothman, DEH adulteration The unsatifactoriness of ultra low yeld cigarenes a . E A a
population hased sample smuke cearciles in the rangen In mg 2
Mary F. I DPH use 2m € Despite the publicaly aberut discase naks ed umuking and ahr wadeser
Chareraon belief that ultra lore yiel cigarettes are les ha LE must 1 a - ne
Doris Bloch, RN. DPH (1989) the sireel for these cigareties, le alone aall the advenused mile
No doube smokers have routanchrined slura los yold CIEATELLE ar
Joy G. Dryfoos: MA (1985) routinely have reiecied ihem a unsalislying A m a
Martin ui I no (1988, delivers ataal 80 per sent dilutan ail in tech put Taben by ofhaal smoking ma LE
Frederich C. Green MD uou Thos smokers 1 lern the ir of compensatory FAPRIN are man Libel h
persist in smoking theur cigarelies tha are those smokers who de not d -
uli clory compensation lechniques Far tir low yacku cigares. the
amoking les hnique are i kann the diluting air venis on hlue un lroi L
D Rogers, MD MPH usen taking larger puffs, and at Marar and Fortmann e mun es samely sman any Pure
Zena I MA MB (1989) cigarenes per day A smeker sell sriccus 2 icompe
tsmande M. Trevine. 2 MPH (1967) compensators kave) may cause much et the discouraging a LE La in
Experiment Eradrar 7- Hes en expenments the more en ragin pis
Joe I Wray, MD, MPH u of - maghi be ganed from the -ndespread use d alue les -
amokers the refuse to ouit smoking wes et a randem - assigneu le
remain 1 their 0-n hrand (average L. ma upe tir 14 ma à ard 11 smahn
STAFT to ch le an unra los yeld hrand a ma
H MeBeash, MD MPH amoking the sitra lore yield group had plasma mise ne level that wene unh * 24
Erer - die DeverliManmarn Eqhier cent of the own hrand suur 15 22 ngiml) a
Adrienne Aa P % per CEM uo 1 u ppm) IAlthough ne card an the Mribual -
Palirana Darretter explicaly instructed not to how hher ven IK West Personal -
Deyne I Simalarly in the expenmental component se the en CA Hens
Aaaintent Menugun i panial compensati in smokers whe : lorued lu
Marva Baren iBeha ara blocking of hier ventr : ne forbidden - this Mudy but may ha
Ediarial Aanslant discouraged by delails of the procedure .
The romband lesson of the cros see Tura survey and the forced de
Prider rine € expenments is that a there is lo be ma Bama progress with she intral srie 11
Derkee Dobbs yick cigareile as use Aeds lo be à couraged mura forcelully Car ul the
andadyming Autoral amokers des put up - ultra lun rechl . that higher ruele cigareues de
easy purchave any Imagine chacolate bree 3
desen wand sus Candy maght ser irrat but - : un 2 andi
016100 hex a would galher dus eapecially the were nue . verr
Georpe 1. Aanas JD, MPH ihe more satislying I unl aien
ir cigareite manulacturers were requared lus make only fu T
(guarding againsi more problema hirer desgni - these
ucaler eflect on expesures le smo CO 101 2 the du in the vade de
blocking vent holes and by amoking grealer humber per day And m4

of customers for these peuxlucts even in ratth
Maron and Fortmann in that issue of the

Haus Californa As nutral by
only - pr ent ut

EDITORIAL BOARD
leene H. Murier P (1967)
Mary Grace Kevar. DAPH MS us
I hatsr. MD. MPH (1989,
Julue A Walkr MD (40611 eviewed an the
Philip G Weiler MD used,

ma net asuns

a
hng
remain F
-
mp lan A I 10 dus a
le el Luffral à
- ation
vitra Jor yeld le
en
1h
2
mah
cigareties
2
530

-

report

Marbeth Horte
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS
- Hraba : a La-
I G Rosenhrant PAD
I 1 Thr - New
1 H I MD, Den

I I F Firl as drug content of medication . stncally regulated su thund be Jrus ve a
Jena Connelky. MLS amoke Many 1muken would over imark theur crareiles by breal ne 141

5 F ae

2501662717