WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRIBUNE
D. 25,605
a 49,326
WACO METEOPOLITAN AREA
MAR S i963

F.C Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard- guouA
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission frona going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it
dnes not scem right or logical that one medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer w hile
newspapers, magazines, billboards and counter
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC said it is proposir.g to refuse licenses
to broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising
becauso of evidence that smoking is injuriour to hoalth
and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public
interest. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals to do
as they please so long as they doa't harm another,
Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that if you don't mention something. maybe it won't
Congressman Paul Rugers, Florida Democrat, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Conl-
merce Commitice, said in reference to the proposed
FCC rulc that the ngancy had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has
any right to tell an advertiser what he could not
say in his acvertisements. Rogers said Congress will
take a close Icok at the whole question of regulations
on television and radio advertising content, not only
as to the Federal Communications Commission but
in regard to Federal Trade Conunission practices as
The stakes involved extend beyond the business
of broadcasling. They 05 to the beart of whether
governmeat burcaus should be allowcd to 20 beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Heulth.

hurt you and will disappear.

well.

tho linits of due proccss and the law,