HKE2228112

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO

14

January 3, 1977
Dr. Willian H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Research roundation
715 Huir Lands Vista Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. Fishan:
and Salk.

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolla rescarch cocaunity In particular, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founcation and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzyaes
should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnrent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental
prublems is particularly inely. It will be 0 o'det potential importance for
pulling tcgetter work, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation,
characteriztaion and doternination of the significance of huran oncodevelopmenta
antigens such as alphafetoprotein and carcinousbryonic antiqens.
One of the goals of the work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship
of increased seruid concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinogen
exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model svstors clearly derion-
strate tnet anirals pasodxo to hejatocarcinogens have eleva ted serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developrant of Falionant Lusers. It is hoped that systeretic
study of human scra frut differert aources vill determing if serum AFF concun-
In addition, the role of envirumental factors such as hormo'tal influences on
the production of onLodevelopmental gene pry-hals car he further explored in
different sy:toas. Such data implics that (he prodiution of nicocave lopmental
gene product, by turor cells is net a fixed property of 7 givon tumor but is
He look forrard to working vith you and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the inportant subjert of oncodeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinosen exposure.

subject 10 environmertal controls.

express ion.
Best regards,
Stewart Sell. M.D.
Professor
SS/nb