LOS ANGPIES TICS
Los Angeles, California
October 20, 1054
been proved.
lale
L'niversity

havel uudn the premise that hination n' a partirular type
neet non hetween riea- in each nf : Three ratrgories
mokine and disease ha: has alrcady produced a sale
Might Take Six Months one it is. so all can be made
Dr. a Cuyler Hammond thar way, 11 not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Carence Cook T.it:e.
compiete statistica! ipna to chairman of the scientific art-
date, said tbat "some say we sisnry bnard and scient tic di
should wait for more defini rector of the Toisarr Indus.
tive evidence before develop- try Research Committee de.
ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would
one has said just what the de produre some of "the defni
finitive evidence wauld be." 1ive evidenre tn inich Dr
He sand he "took issue'l with Hammond referred.
In his Talk 1n the Ameriran "We wiit larkle simultan
system was more important, line of the industry research
might prove surcessfal in six do not have today 1he experi-
months, arirh keek." he said menta! evidenre that : pr
tobarco, he Raid, and et may The most important nrocet

cigarette IC so scientific re-
search should prove which
should find one, "since
ple like to smoke cigarettes,
seribed 1lhe outlines nf stud-
Tackle Unknewns

Expert Calls
"Safe
Cigarettes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming
NEW YORK Ort, 19 (ILP)

for

atatistician

-oad

this viewnint.

The evidenre connecting cig- Cancer Sneiety meeting. Dr eously mans of the unknowns
arette smoking with hoth Hammond said 1he relation- in this field of tobaccn 11se in
lung cancer and heart dis. ship nl rigare:te smoking to relation to human health, be
case is "ourrw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out-
something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitive
onee about developing "a safe health. than the relationship findings in ue area where
cigarette." leading statisti- to lung cancer A program to murh suggestive work has
cal scientist told the annual find "a safe cigarette from bren done. The program of
tific advisory board of the There are varinus types of garding the raune and efert
Tobacco Industry Research tahacen, there are varinus relationshin hetween erts rom-
Committee ananceded some of types nl fiters, and there arc mental factors including

the viewpoint of the heart the bnard
Outlines Described

that we
recognizrs
mit scientific conclayons PA.
smokine and lune cancer
et up wa: direr Tadv -
current lung cance rase: .
10 medical centers intlie : n 1
ed States and Canada,

meeting cf the American
Cancer Society today.
At the same time the scien-

11e details nf :ta sricatific re- arinua teehn'gues nl euring

srarch program which is he that

some fortuatous rom-
LOS ANGELES EXAMINER
los Ange les, California
October 20, 1954

It w111 inelude numerous
studies of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers,
an well as teste on animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. à apecitio research
grants, financed by the TIRC,
wrill be announced later.

HEALTHSTUDY
ON TOBACCO
YORK, Oct. 19, L
< broad abx point study seek
Ing knowledge whether eigarets
or other forms of tobaceo cause
lung eancer or other health baz.
ards wa announced today.
It by the first announcement
of big research proxram
headed by the selentifle ad-
visory board of the Tobacco In
dustry Research Committee

NEW

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062