DALLAS MORNING NEWS
Dallas, Texas
April 14, 1954

Tobacco Firms
New Cancer
NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing
Industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers.

Ask
Studies
growers and tobacco
tional" statements linkdng smoking Among those payonb by the com
and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the Nattonal Cancer
Inatitute of the United States Gov-
relationship of ernment, which said . a 1953 A
cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of lung caneer
for exhaustive research to estab- had not been established. Several
lish the basle cause of the disease. ot the institute's scientista also
The tobacco industry research were cited.
Others quoted were the Damon
issued a booklet con Runyon Fund, which called for
talning previously published state- more research, and
ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgoon Dr. Max Chicago Cutler, who
itles doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons may
by other cancer experts that tobac- develop lung cancer partly because
of smoking but that to
The earliest, whitten in 1923, sald conclusion of a direct relationahip accept
there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientitic and
none that would produce turnors. hazardous.
The most recent, dated last March JI. smoke in the lungs were a
16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of
be done betore causes of lung can- have had it long ago," cancer, tbe
cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report
The tobacco committee, formed Memorial
in January to combat mounting bor, Maine. Laboratory, Bar Har-
charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the
up of nearly every major eigarette University of Texas School of Medi-
manufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Insir-

alded picture of the
committee

Can-
à
we'd all
Jackson

co causes tung cancer.

can be established.

director of the Roscoe B. Little,
ance Company and British authar-
itles, Nearly all those quoted
agreed that no conclusions çould be
reached until an absolute cause for
lung cancer has been established
The report was described by an
industry spokesman as 5 "in-
terim" statement, pending an-
nouncement of the choice of R
prominent scientist to
basie cancer
supervise
research to be f-
nanced by the industry. That scien-
tist will decide how the industry's
cancer-research money is to be
spent. No date has been set for his
selection.
At the last count, the committee
said, there were more than 250
cancer research grants in the
United States alone,
which
"any one of
might produce evidence to
unlock the secrets of lung cancer,

01