PKJ
Carcinogenesis vul 13 nu 13 rp2721-2725, 1924 carcinogens nujudesoduragpaule chemopreventive agents
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
pyridyD-1-butandne and
C341
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amenean Flealth Foundation, Valhalla, NY 10595. USA
models examined o date (2). BaP is a protorype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclie aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the A/J mouse hecause previous
The purpose of this study SEM to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer In smokers, Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression 01 by 4-(methylnitrosanino)-1-0-pyridyl)-1-butane (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of Cemale A/J mice CI evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenbers were treated by either intragastric a'deara (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of intraperitoneal injection (L-p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and7.12-dimethylbenzlanthracenede (9,10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the AlJ mouse or evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The ic. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactor) than l.p. administration. (4,11,12). Results obtained with the A mouse can be replicated because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injection site and associated mortality A dose response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung turnor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by ig. administration NNK in both the A/1 mous and F344 rat (11,13) mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens, This may not he realistic with respect 03 tobacco of 24 umol of each) induced more lung tume prs than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for 4 study, NNK and BaP, are important Comparisons of NNK and BaP given Individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke un. when given 4q the ig. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effeets of chemopreventive agents given either were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP The most favorahle dosing reginien of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluation of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 umol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and subdoses ig., with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we examined tumo yields obtained dosing. This reginen induced 10.5+4.4 lung adenomas uodn treatment with NNK ond BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen. 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 19 ethylisothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model sas employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP. thls study provide a convenlent model for assessing the NNX was synthesized in the American Heates Foundadon Organic Syathesis efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. Its purity was establithed by HPLC au >997 BaP (93% purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which Amadran Health Foundution Research Animal Farility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maletained on AIN-7A4 diri containing 58 MAS oil. as previously to play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups et 13 as sammarized in Table I At as - veeks taek mouse wa kers: 4-(methylnitosaminol-ï -(3-pyridyl)- -butanone (NNK*) treated by intaperitoneal (ip.) injection or by intragaste gavage (is) with and benzolalpyrene (BaP) (1) NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical in 0.1 ml cononsed oil. NNK and BaP were bein carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in the 0.1 ml used for treatment Injections and gavages sere carried *Albreslations: NNK. 4-(methy? 05amino)- 1-(3-pydal-1-1 -butune individuat dose was cne -eighth of the nont Equimolar dours of NNK and e aa benzol-lpyrene: PEITC, pheneihy isothiocyanale; BITC, benayi BaP were used in most of thr combination groups, bacause the mrants of
whlch these 015 tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the
Most previous studies in the A mous have examined We sought to develop a model which could be used to
that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
5.9: 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (F A 0.001) and completely inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
BITC (98% purity) and PEITC (93% (Aund were abtained from the Aldrich Chrmical Company (Milwaukes, WT Cononseed oll : purchased froment Female All micr. age weeks were obtoined fromm The Jackson Laboraty CF Harbor, ME). They were hnusd snder standard conditions in the The desiga of the bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1. A mice were divided out for 8 consecurive weeks. The toral doses are given in Table L Each 16 NNK and total earcinogenic polyayelic hydrocarbons in tobaceo smake are
Sigma Chemleal Co (S) Louis, MO).
introduction
agents against two of the carcinogen in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
isothiocyanait, a intriperitoncal, is. intragastie gavage.
o Oxford University Press
2721
