:
NEW-YORK POST, FRIDAY. MAY- 17, 1996. L:
NEW YORR
OST
Taol el.bea rontaconsiv prenished alaity mespuper
Anti-smoking skulduggery Imagine this scenario: A scientist who leading opponents. claims to have discovered that cigarette Scruggs insists he didn't smoking poses no danger to human uments. health is about to testify on behalf of the enterod Perhaps the tobacco industry. Suddenly it's revealed clear same lawyers have bought the re-
"buy" any doc- not. But unless he has banking business, # is un how are rensonable people to blower: He also represented former legal fees in the event Brown & pay Wigand's legal costa PInoo be inter-
that he is secretly receiving a salary from liams why Seruggs would provide Wil- tobacen lawyers. It also emerges that the Moreover with such substantial "loans." scarcher a house and have co-signed two interpret Williams' "salary? car loans for him. In his defense, the sci- This is not the first time Scruggs has entist insists that, except for the salary, been involved with a subsidized whistle- Question: How would the media likely Brown & Williamson executive Jeffrey react? A huge brouhaha to say the latter's Wigand. CBS Newe promised to pay the The scientist's research, whatever ita Williamson sued Wigand for breaching actual merits, would be buried under a his contract's confidentiality clause dur- mudslide of derision. The tobacco indus- ing a widely reported appearance on "60 ES grounds for attempting to buy a wit- CBS lawyers, fearing that the offer to Now let's change a few details. Say the preted as an inducement to break the scientist la a "whistleblower" who asserta contract, initially scotched the segment. that the tobacen industry is fully aware After the substance of Wigand's charges that cigarette smoking 5. lethal and has hit the newspapers, his interview was The lawyers providing the salary and Meanwhile, the anti-tobacco forces also "loans, rather than working for the to- suffered an embarrasament when a for- bacco industry, are in fact spearheading mer Philip Morris employee recanted tes- There you have the chain of events that Drug Administration (FDA) actually unfolded recently in a Louisville, Jerome Rivers, a former manufacturing Ky., courtroom. Yet the near-silence sur- supervisor for the rounding incident has been deafen- drew his claim that Philip Morris rou- one of the few papers to els. (The FDA hoped to use this Merrell run the story on Page One, reported that "evidence" to justify regulating tobacco as Williams, a former paralegal for a drug.) a law firm representing Brown 38 Wil- Critics incessantly portray the tobacco liamson $109,000 Tobacco Corp., received a industry ns amoral, even though ita mortgage and other financial "crime" consists in selling a legal rewards. Williams had made internal uct that millions of Americans prod- corporate documents available to attor- After these His benefactor was lawyer Richard some of tobacco's foes would comes do well 'dn Scruggs one of the tobacco industry's take a careful look in the mirror.
it's all just a loan, least. ness.
would be roundly condemned on ethi- Minutes.
worked to conceal this fact for decades eventually aired.
the campaign against it. the ing. USA Today,
timony he had giveri to the Food and tinely measures and adjusts nicotine lev-
with-
conglomerate,
et is enjoy. to
neys suing the tobacoo companies.
when the subject shenanigans, of ethics clear that
