C

salmly

ATT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
New York Timer Serrier

wan bought 5.1 billion American American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars -
made cigarettes last year, ringing became a issue ever in receat pack (S2.86) compared with 22

TAIPEI I The Marlboro COW- dn sales of $119 million le 1986, trade talks betwen the United New Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for
boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just S4 4 million. For- Staics and Taiwa. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis
town, His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered * ing in Japan are more liberal Com-
gaitar-playing. jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted give out free cigarettes and gifts," B aggressive campaign Television
This trenetic, fast-growing GA- cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawed in the United States in 1971.
tioc of nearly 20 million people ly because both Taiwan and Japan school students - 12, is ycars old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-siandiog restrictions. are DOW smoking How can € and Taiwan must Carry - label that,
year and for the first time, - According to the Brown & Wil- rette companica promote cigaretics roughly translated, says, "For the
pubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobeco Corp. exports of like that? I's O.K. to have them sake of health, doa't smoke loo
made . America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" - warning much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year, re- joy . 915, billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $1 tioms in new sales. the United States. But those people mandaled in the United States.

and dod-pus-wou stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.

panies can advertise or TV after

our this city, next to posters % a peroent.
er of Winston cigarettes.

"They go 01 amusement places 6 3:50 P.M. and are now conducting

for most of the growth in American be said recently. "Many scbool- advertising of cigarettes was out

la Japan, which has population
million
of 120
and where people
the past year. The market share 2E
American cigarettes increased to ers vigorously deny
10
frons 3 percent in 1986, and the promoting

Wacturers have essentially intro
cigarette advertising 01 the
tbe American companies of entic-
ing teen-agers 01 take dn moking.
operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992.
tised, altbough it does now.
proneure from Washington In the alcohol.
year since stilf restrictions oc for-
$ cigarettes were dropped.
ed American cigarettes UT Taiwan
lor
peedod growth American man-
sfacturer at time when sales in export
way
and tbe number ol anti-smoking
laws in
way dn

are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe oompanies aay American
'uru - human being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan
not BO much because of the adver.
tising a because they are of better
quality and taste better. American
are
with the way are cigarettes made of
they and bacco and have less tar than Tai-
producta 14) wancse cigarettos which are not

duced

ialand, and that has created a furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes year. that."
Government officials bave accusod imports have more than tripled

American

cigarette manufactur-
there la
any-
Tbey are not allowed to advertixe
5 small stores where cigarettes are
as well as
through promo-
also
120 ada - year in
place
droulation maga- acl-
dom excoods 200,000.
poople
Taiwar
im-

blended
to-

charge the American companies more than percent last year, thing 3uoin their
The soreramect-adminitered dicts that il could grow to 15 8. 20 sales pitch.

botly deay.

Department of Agriculture oud ihry have no plans to change their bleaded.
American pressure to open their have they pusbed to do so, they say.
said Jaw Shau-kong L legislator. tions. Cigarette uampuntru may
courage its people to amoke, why zines, cach ol whose
causc of American ada. They bire rettos accounted for leas than 1 per
young attractive pro-rin-61 girla oent ol tbe market
wearing short skirts to give me cig. posed strict quotas on foreip
and then it becomos a habit. It' cigaretter and imposed stift teriffe

the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials E tbey rosent 00 television or la newspapers. Nor
Tbe government agreed to allow markets le producta that éndanger They can advertise only througb
others into the business oaly under poople's health, like cigarettes and posiers bung near cigarette racks or

sales A really burts our feelings, sold,

have soared, generating much- A., the United Sustes doca not en

to Taiwan? Younger

the Unitod States are down E females are smoking - lor E Bedore last year, loreign ciga
According to the U.S. Depart- arettes (roe is nightclubs k's a cigarettes, bended imports at F
mert ol Agriculture, people in Tal- difficult lor Sunak boys to resist, 70,000 retail outlets licenaed to sell

immoral.

2 - rerult, imported cipareties cost

OLVZS000SZ