NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A campalgn to woo Dade County teenagers away from smoklng la under way bere as part of . natlon-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groupe, the society hopes to persuade a large pro- portion of the nation's young people that amoking may Jead Key arapnn la the : m- palgn, le him strip detalling thr ra against tebacen, It han already I sbewn le 5 enth graders in 15 schonis ar educational telesinien, :nd will 1 breadeat tn min Kradn srience students . the The seventh-grade program, directed by teacher Rill Evans, inchuded a panel discussion in which students directed ques- tiona at Dr. Francis N. Cooke, representing the society. a Teachers I have talked to agree that although amoking la not a serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu. dents are approaching the are when the problem will be faced," Erene sald: Mata value a à nimatrips E = glves students logleal argument with whleh ithey eenld retuee ta - - - when neeraged by alrele et triende : aded. The Nm atrip la also being alim "live lo senior a L. achools la the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October 9, 1960
Education Cuts Youth
à
Habits
Fag la
American eigaret amoking can be reduced * E cent through teenage education program . à high schools. These statistics verr presenled Saturday by Walter G. I director of public education for the American Cancer Society, here lor the Florida Division. ACS, annual meeting I said the I moke" program : directed at leenagers as . mean fer I eancer becsme et the soclety's esevietion that staoking r . caase of fatal lang a proepects of reducing cigaret smoking by one-fih were Abon la pilol program conducted with 27,000 high acheol atudents a Partland. Ore., I 1 the dis d Soidents I perents I were moet lukely le 1. Smoking increased is the successive high school prades. Among boys participating in the Oregon aurvey. 141 E cent emoked as freshmen. 15.2 E cent as sopbemores, 31 per ent as juniars, E 15 as i A correspond ing ligures for girl stodents were 46 per cent, 10.6 per cent, 1 or the students. 258 per cent of the boys smoked regularly at least enre . I u à 11.6 per cent of the girle 4. Education programs against moking reduced the mumber ol new amokers angong boys from 13 per cent le 1.7 & cent. and beginning sirl mobers from at b 1. PROGRAM EFFECTIVE Jamer esid Che figures projected erer - four-Jear peried indicated 2 20 per eent d high sehool I could g deterred froro amoking through the ACS educational program A stody, le said, revealed that the 1 d'tactive approach erar in showing thr leng term Alect a moking. lesving the decision le the I + . Least ellective, he related, : the aimple instruction not 1 2 part el 5 antidmoking eduration program. a ACS has devised a Alna strip illutruting allecta A e habit for ecreming in * achool claseroon
a cancer.
at 2 5 Mar Hotel can clomur
apring.
.
I à Hgaret pabit
a E cent and a per rent.
- The NITIN 20/0022686
