SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H.
ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

P. Collopy, M.E., C.LH.

et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
questionnaire The symptoms were more common . build-

In a cross-sectional investiganon in ON building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validased
were meaured on e linear analog scale questionnaire. dur where the ventilation system also provided cooling and
Ar the same time, the micro-environment (environmental humidifcation. irrespective of the as of the I A
characteristics in the breathing zone rather than area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air
samples) I characierized by measing tempereture, quality parameten : not described. Skov et al. (1967) ex-
relarive humidiry, respirable suspended perticulases, CEF- amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern I
bon dioxide, noise level, lighting intensiry, relacive ka to halbs and 11 older control buildings A kevel ol symp
midiry, and airflow. No relationship - xen benwern tom was related to - "Neecing" factor (carpets, upholstery.
the degree of sympioms and age, educarion. or duration and horizontal surfaces) cad the "macro-molecular compo
of employment at the building or time spent in dhr budld- nent" of dust They also demonstrated - relationship berween
fun On a daily basis. Starisaically, complaine were the pumber of houn spent photocopying and using carbonles
significantly more frequent among Supous men. Envi- copy paper and the level of complaints. Other studies bave
rommental characteristics associased wish the increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et a 1985)
complaint levels in this group included decreesed airflow and prychodynamic factors (Rowand et al. 1984) contribute
models, there was an association between respirable a cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome by I
pended particulates and the levels of boch mucous mem suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertaon et
brane and systemic complaints. Satisfaction wish the F (1985) were unabke to demonstrate any measurable dif.
I environment as predicted by percepcion of dreft ferences la the concentrations of environmental pollatant
did à clearty contribute a the degree of symptoms, berween rooms in a mechanically and a naturally vertileted
mudies of dhe sick building syndrome I examine ples measung dust and a "macro-molecular" fraction.

complaints associaied with the "sick building syndrome

velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended i to indoor air quality complaints.

riculates and dry-bulb semperature. In regression
although regression models E suggest E comy
were - independent of thermal parameners.
inaensiry I also associated 1 complaints. F
L measures to identify predictors of complaints in

Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
building. They studied the rooms with the I compl
rates and used area samples. Skov et al. (1967) did demor
strate relationship between symptoms and both
Area samples in buildings may not x representative of
the exposures in different points in single rooms Physical
characteristics 1 a windows and partitions. computers
and sbelving may infuence air currents. Radian beat ma
different exposure characteristics than tbe macro-enviros

area -

1 exposures simultaneously and indude prycho in E samples.

indoor I
INTRODUCTION

Complaints termed the E building syndrome" bave lead to uneven distribution of pollutats. Finally. most X
led to pumerous investigations in the last 15 years. A are hutants resuh from point sources, 30 they will % diluted as
thought oi occur primarily s newty constructed oftice build- subject . farther removed from the source. A micro à
inps and, at kast in the past, were thought to be * to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very
wide variety of causes have been identifed is specife settings, meat of a building In addition. all applied occupational and
inctuding inadequate semperature and relative bumidity coo- environmental bealth research 2 attempes to relate dose or
trol, noise, lighting. vibration. volatike organic compounds beakb effects suffers from the problem that dose a penerally
and formaldebyde. microorpanisms, environmental sobeco measured a several points in time and then extrapolated to
smoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicle exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications I decades
spent and contaminated air and boiler fumes. fbbrs released while most health effects are mcaured as a single resuk of
from duct linings. and à machine offgases a odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sum
A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnepan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom
et al. 1984) suppested that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to hour. such stratepy most fail
(Robertson et al. 1985) was unable to identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameten in the micro-
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (temper- eavironment and set these characteristics in relation or the
ature). relative humidity. air velocity, formaldebyde. or pos- kevel of individual complaints at - pven point in I This
rtive or nepative ions between several rooms in . building report presents results of crom-sectional investigation of -
with natural and - building with mechanical ventilacion. problem building using - self-administered, linear analog.
where both su of room had high levels of complaints Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
i I a Amistant Profenor of Medicine L ol ladustrial and Emvironmental Heakh Sciences at the Univeruty ol *
of Medicine and Publec Heahh. a f a Director. Enviroomental Heah and Salery, Camepe-Mellon Univeruty. Pirtsburgh :

inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelens,

(Kreiss and Hodpson 1984; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986).
marily to mechanical ventilation A same poup ol authors

results is greater than the difference in average samples,
No investigations in the peer-reviewed litersture have

Schook

S