True-ralse Questlont 8 the Chenistry nnd Psychophys lology of Odor end Flavor
1. H F Sono modern workers suggest that nocurate manurement of vlbrational
frequency (in the for Intrared, for exanple) of nn unknown ndineat
wili permit prediction of its quallty nnd Intenslty.
T a No lenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone hos any odor; Instead
they react with the mucose forming new products whlch ore smelled; but
Sone odorants have sterle or vlbrational propertles whlch force the
conclusion that they are odor less whon they are not
II, a F Present evldence strongly suggests the different parts of the olfactory
receptor area, llke the retina In the eye, are qua silty-spocific.
TF Odorants noed not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor
T No one yet has a - clue as to the criticol reletion between the
molecule ond the receptor which permlts an odor perception,
11 The greater the secretion rate of eucous or sallve, the higher their pH,
and both pri and temperature influence the quallty of sensation in the
11 I F The Ideal instrumentel detector would respond to odors in the sone
quantitatlve range no doos an ANISAI or human sub ject.
1 a Such an Ideat detector has not been developed.
> : IFenn observors with head In fixed position can by virtue of the two
indopondet nostrils easliy discern stereo Suoll effects, 1.e. they
can tell wholler an prorent Is of the right or left hand, much 05 orie
uses hts two ears in locating the source of sound,
TF For certaln musk-like conpounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to
trigger - humon olfactory response.
Admptation 01 one olfactory qunlity does not significantly reduce
sensitivity to any other dissimilar quality, but dons reduce sensi-
tivity to all slatlor quelifies.
- By employing siai larities nethod of conparing qualitles, one con nov
obtain ldentity hnd degroes of difference without recourse 9 troshle-
à T Hunger louers thresholds slightly to some food qualifios but not for
1F It is now possible to loentlfy the Intensity and quality of certain
given stimuli simply by expert examination of the electrophysiological
record taken from approprlate ndor or taste neurons
TF Electrical stimuletion of taste in -nn yields only reports of "sour"
and a "metallic" or "alkaline quality.
I F Direct electrical stimuletlon of the olfactory E . has
successfully accompllshed.
Although total anosala is rare In humans and egeusia even rarer, there
ls evidence that ln analogy to color vision deficiences, some
ere Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while hoving norma
sensitivity to others.
Toplcal anesthetlcs applied to the tongue a hr nu that different que Ilties
- Certain endocr ine diseese entitles make It possible for none people
quite sensitively to "smell" such "odor less" substances 09 sucrose or
sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both teste and odor can be
reduced to noreal by eanipulation of endocrine levels.
- Premenopausa woren at the tlme of ovulation flnd certain odors
disogreeable whlle at other times In the menstrun cycle these - via or

sone elenents possess taste.

surface In order to be see led.

chemical senses.

v.

apae words.
others.

yor beon
people

VII.

50291

of taste disappear at different rates.

they will Judge quite pleasant.