de Epldemist Vol 47 No. 10. 20 1143-1142, H
Copyright o 1994 Cluvier Science 3
Prinsed is Great Britain AP righu reacrved
0895-435/94 47.00 - con

Pergamon

0895-354949000814

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN SMOKERS, EX-SMOKERS,
PASSIVE SMOKERS AND NON-SMOKERS
LISON THORNTON, PETER LEE* and Join FRY
P N Le Statisties and Computin Led, 17 Ceder Road, Sutton, Surrey SM2 SDA, England
(Recened in rested form & March 1994)
Abstract à extent to which current, ex and passive smoking are associated with
other risk factors, and the potential for confounding arising from these associations, was
studied using a representative sample of 9003 British adults The distribution of 31
lifestyle factors generally considered associated with adverse health were compared in
current smokers, ex-smokers, never amokers living with . smoker ("passive smokers")
and other never smokers. or the 33 rick factors 27 showed a significantly higher
prevalence in heavy smokers than in never smokers and only t showed a lower
prevalence. For many risk factors, prevalence increased with amount smoked, docreased
with time of smoking cessation and was increased in passive smokers. The possible
magnitude of bias from confounding by the risk factors is estimated, It is concluded that
confounding by multiple risk factors may be an important issue in smoking studies
where weak associations are obscrved. This applies particularly to studies investigating
the possible association of pasive smoking with various heakh effocts.
Smoking Passive smoking Confounding Bias

INTRODUCTION

gists normally do attempt to take account of

Numerous cpidemiological studies have investi- such differences where relevant to the endpoint
gated the relationship of current smoking, past studied and thus try to minimize bias due 01
smoking and exposure o environmental confounding. Differences betwoen non-smokers
tobacco smoke ("passive smoking") to mor- exposed and not exposed to environmental
tality and morbidity from a varicty of discases tobacco smoke are less well studied, though
11) Bocause smokers and passive smokers are recent reports [4, 5] have pointed to a possible
not a random selection of the population, such confounding of the lung cancer relationship by
theoretical possibility that observed differences A study of the literature over many years by
between the groups studied may arise, at least in one of us (PL) has led to a number of pro-
part, duc 9 differences in exposure from other visional conclusions being reached. Firstly,
risk factors and not wholly to effocts of smoking smokers tend to have unhealthier lifestyles than
or of environmental tobaco smoke exposure. non-smokers in a number of respocts, so that
Many differences between smokers and non- they would be expocted to have higher rates of
smokers, such as in alcohol consumption [2) and many discases even in the absence of any effect
social class [3), are well known and epidemiolo- of smoking. Secondly, for many of these lifestyle

studies have always to take into account the diet.

factors passive smokers are also somewhat
worse off than non-smokers unexposed to

"Author for correspondence

1141