BOULDER DATLY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
A
Area stores
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For the Delly Camera 1 kids. ka
referring to the Increased enforce- penally for selling tobacco 001 mi: tried 01 Ang the cigarelles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busl- Store clerks unlucky enough. OF nesses this week duning a crack. getwaught were issueda Lsummons- down on selling cigarettes to mt: to appoar in court. Tho. maximum The sting. conducted on the eve horis H $200 fine. of. the American Cancer Soclety's The Suna. involved two tcams. Orcat American Smokeout, was -"I Each included u uniformed omcer. tended to educate clerks that it's -Il a pigin clothes officer. and two legal 9 sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School girts, Who Police targeted gas stations, con: giris' parents signed a waiver al. vënience, drug, grocery. and -ep lowing themlo Take portin thc.op- - "Taw has never been enforced, pies The juvenlles wore told not to Jopinos Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk 10 sell "We're letting the stores know had to show identification.
count stores. Until recently, the eratlon. this le going to happen," ahc sald,
the cigarettes. and, If asked, they (Sce DOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors At the Conoco atation, 3000 2020 Broadway, peran 01 cry 28uh SL, one of the girts asked when she was isalied a Sum, the cashler for a pack of Mart mons, ous cald Ohg was > stur boro Lights. Officer Rob Hauke- 313p, and couldn't afford 21 ness, S plain clothes, poojs UL court costs. HAlikëness poû 21 ina-hehind her to witnese thç contole her, saying she coulu: A placard near the cash regis- the Distriet Attorney to do com, . ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity ecrvice Inatrad of paying clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clorka, not thc store OWT- cation. Thc buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the: she WAS only "LI Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it 03 punish. cd at the license, set it down on stores or clerks," she said. "Al-: the counter, and sold her the though, when you pee clerks cry: Afler they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targoted :sr stepped dn and identified him sloros and clerks - all but - eelf as a police officer. Manka recelved summonses. came In and wTote the clerk a Thie wock's operation was "When I see them ask for an year. Tha first sting, conduoted. E I think they're going to 2 ui Scptember, targeted 16 stores: fuce the cale," Haukeness sald. und 15 clerks received sumi
(From Page (OT
The clerk at Colony Market,
transaction.
Aiqngaad work out a dealwith
No 'ar No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, - driver's licensé, which showed court costs.
' -
cigarettes. summons.
ing, you inight think otherwise. secund tobacco sale stine € the:
"But they never do."
monses.
