LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday, March 20, 1977
ALOOK ATTESTS
-To fudge 69 the torrent A; protés the FDA has received, a sizable por- the. calorie-counting - agrees. Long accustomed 6 a cross A firg: A criticism from industry and : consumer activists, the FDA bas been-r bésteged by citizen demands to liber- -ate saccharin And moves areafcot in- - Cangress à amend the Food: and: $- Drug ACLA me a E f : "There'sbeen atremendous.cutcr) 3 from all:aver the country," an EDA spokesman à Washington said: "D ranges from anguish to anger.We've. "never been this busy." thes: N N The FDA, for its part: saysit was Fonly doing what the- -law. required. law-specifically the Dela- * ney clause Congress inserted.in the. 1 Food and Drug Act ir 1958 says that:1 additive-shall be deemed. cancer E mem or animat" eyidence of.cancer E humans
The
Lie laut may
Banon Saccharin: 10) Why? BOBEF H GIT . Times v, bence Wrter Does it make a nse 8 ban a poguin food additive on he strength of what and. happens when 1 hundred rats € offsprings huz: doses? - 1 € Calorie Contral Council, Inc. R. foodand drink, bas spent thousands > ministration for its decision 64 ban sweetener curreatly a the market. : "Even the VIF is willing to admit thère's * basic difference between d. : rats and humar - cne such adin the. TEAL Street Journal:observed. ESAL: just another ex mpie of the arbitrary mtire ofbig guremment" a
tion of
public
seaasng the ogc of seem.to the: general public, mediea researchers say: that the- animal a a périments upon-which such regilato-- edecisions are baséd do have -dest 1 sibles rationale- ands that. they 9 bave a direct-bearing. .on risk 6 bu-: STIRK true, researchers ackmowiedg thattherats 'at the:center of this fur- are consumed each day the saccharin : . "equivalent a reughly'1.000 cans yp : lowecalorie soit drink But they-con- sidérit misleading-if not dishonest- tosuggest, as the calorie counell basr that this disparity makes the research 7 tirélevant 6. humans. : - who a People drink oniy one can dayai id saccharin soft drink"rum a a comparably lower risk of cancer. But in a EICP million people, the collective population hazard cauld still add. theusand - uptoseveral cases of blad- dercancer: in ancr paus ::3: a Moreover, scientists note; a pert nen M that led the € ban
mans 4
. - a
eat d additive in de s-andthe
. trade
"por-ficed)
Allanta thinks not The argani- de toha safe is it la found after Kasm: sation, whose 0000'0:S annual budgatia which are appropriate forthe evaiua- comes i manufacturers ot dietary d tion of the safethat food additives:tou atdollars la thelast few days for E-my Liduce K Thé ciause does.not allaw fora bal Tt page newspaper ads across the coun-4 EU anain 2 ofris - md berefit. Nar does it try-berating # Food and Drug Ad- I: rediire: the: ban > E Ë based a a
saccharin, - the : oniy nonnutritive- - 1 Seisce
7035437
0087432
TIMN
