2071277124
Page 1
Note for Padoan, Art : URGENT *** Sarmento, Roberto Thu, Mar 27, 1997 11:22 AM Padoan, Art
From: Date: Subject: EEMA To:
Mr. William HL. Webb, Chicf Operating Officer of Philip Morris Companies Inc., is pleased to announce the appointment of Mr. Jean- Claude Kunz, Vice President Central Europe, to the position of President EEMA Region, effective immediately. In his new role, Jean- Claude will report to Mr. Andreas Gembler, President of Philip Morris Jean-Claude began his career with Philip Morris EEMA in 1983 as Business Development Analyst. In 1984, he was promoted to General Manager Eastern Europe and in 1986, he was appointed General Manager for the Levant and parts of the Middle East. În 1990, he was appointed Area Director Eastern Europe and in 1992, Area Director Central Europe. In 1993, he was appointed to his current position of Vice President Central Europe. Jean-Claude has played a key role in the success of EEMA's acquisitions and the development of the emerging markets of Central Europe and the Balkans. With the transfer of the domestic Scandinavian and Finnish markets to P Georges Diserens, Vice President Switzerland, Scandinavia / Finland / Baltics / Duty Frce will assume responsibility for Central Europe and is appointed Vice President Switzerland, Central P Hans Fluri, Vice President Eastern Europe, will assume additional responsibility for the Baltics and is appointed Vice President Eastern
International Inc.
the EU:
Europe and Duty Free. Europe and the Baltics.
Also reporting to Jean-Claude will be: P Rudi Schweizer, Senior Vice President P John Guarino, Director Africa and Levant P Jacques Guyot, Vice President Operations P Kathleen Linehan, Vice President Corporate Affairs P Turhan Talu, Vice President GCC and Turkey P Jean-Michel Toinet, Vice President Marketing
Please join us in congratulating Jean-Claude and in wishing him every success in his new position as President EEMA Region. At the same time, join us in extending our best wishes to Georges and Hans in
their new responsibilities.
