True-ralse Questlons S the Chenistry and hychaphyslology.pt_ogr and Flevor 1. TF Some nodorn workers suggest that nocurate menaurenent of vibrattona! frequency (in the far Intrared, for exanple) of nn unknown odorant will pernilt prediction of its quallty and intensity. T F No elenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone hos any odor; Instead they react with the mucose fonning new products whlch are smelled; but T F Sone odorants have sterle or vibrational propertles which force the conclusion thet they are odorless whon they are not. I1, T F Present evidence strongly suggests thet different parts of the offactory receptor aren, Ilke tho retina In the eye, ere quallty-specific. TF Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor TF No one yet has a firm clue as to the criticol reletion between the molecule and the receptor which pernits en odor perception. TF The greater the secretion rate of mucous or sallve, the hlgher their pH, and both pH end tomperature influence the quallty of sensation in the 111. TF The ideal instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sane quantitatlve range ns doos an enimal or human subject. TF Such an Ideet detector hes not been developed. IV. : Ihman observors with head In fixed position cen by virtue of the two Indopondent nostriis easlly discern stereo snall effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier & odoront is ot the right or lefr hand, much es one uses his two cara in locating the source of a sound, 11 For certaln musk-like conpounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger a hunon offactory response. 'A TF Adnptation to one olfactory qunlity does not significantly reduce sensitivity to any other dissiel lar quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all sinllor quelities. TF By employing a similarities nethod of conpering qualities, one con now obtain Identity and degroes of difference without recourse to trouble- vi, TF Hunger lowers thresholds slightly to some food qualltios but not for TF Ir is now possible to Identify the intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull sinply by expert examination of the electrophysiological record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons. 1 F Electrical stimulation of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkaline" quality. T J Direct electrical stlmuletion of the olfactory sense has nover yet beon successfully accompllshed. VII. TF Although total anosela is rore In humans and egeusia even rarer, there is evidence that In analogy to color vision deflciences, some people ere Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while having normal sensitivity to others. h F Topical anesthetics applled to the tongue show that difterent quellties 1 F Certain endocrine diseese entltles make It possible for sone people quite sensitively to "snell" such "odorless" substances 09 sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to nornet by manipuletion of endocrine levels. TF Promenopausal wonon at the time of ovulation fInd certain odors extremely disegreeable whlle at other tines In the menstrunl cycle these seme odors
sone elenents possess taste.
surfoce In order to be smelled,
chemicel senses.
sone words. others.
5
of taste disappear at different rates.
they will judge quite pleasant.
OPI" A -
