STRICKMAN FILTER WINS 2D CONTRACT 2 |Another Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs de Use It : S By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pali Mall of Canada, Ltd., the -3181-puooos est cigarette sompany in that country, contracied yesterday with the Strickman Foundation to pay a penny a pack royalty for use of the filter invénted by Robert L. Strickman. The company, which is 30 per cent British-owned, but Canadian-managed, sells 12 -119 lion cigarettes a year, very few of thcm in the United States. The agreement was the second In two days with the founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company. with annual salcs of more than 18 billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. "ueungous was surrendering its rights in the filter to the fonndetion. The university said it hàd "made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering a highly con- troveisial end competitivé com- mercial ficld." Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financial the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to it last summer iq Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set up on Wednesday byl the New Jersey chemist as B charitable institution é ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has received $200,000 in advance royalties. According to Robert > Katz, the unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts cauld eventually bring +m about SS million L yearin royalties. Mr. Katz, A lawyer who. Is secretary of Seagram's Distil- leries, said that Rothman's Pall' nfall of Canada hed been test- ing the. Strickman filtor since last August. Wilmat Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman's, said of the devicé: "We are sntisfied that nothing exists tor > which gives * comparclle filtratlon without adversety affecting the flavor of the cigarette. a takes out "more padsns d ments withia the cuniext of ac- ceptable flavor, we fcel that : a cigarette company"we shnuld trvir". - - Fax
New York Times March 1, 1968 Page 34
% Claims Are Disputed The claim that the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ing cigarette flavor has bcen a subject of controversy. : Among the most outspoken critics of the filter has beeniF Senator Warren G. Magnuson of Washington, who has con- tenced that its claims have been greatly exaggerated. : NENOUL many governmental and privale health reports byl. experts have called cigarette," tar and hicotine health hazards, Columbia University, in a -01 port on thè Shickman filter made publiç Un Wednesday, lavoided making ahy conclu- So far no United Sates ciga- rette companies are beliaved 01 be close to a contract fok the filter. Experts say that dones- tic companies need not fear competion in this country from the Canadien cigarettes because of a 15-cent import duty on leach package. Pall Mall cigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana- dian concern.
sions.
stake In
a
research.
100; € - a - -
V auc
