K
SYMPTOMS AND THE LNJANOBIANSTONDIA IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
in a cross-sectional investigarion in one building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with - validesed complains associaied with the "sick building syndrome" questionnaire. The symptoms were more common .B build- were measured on e linear analog I questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and Ar the same time. the micro-environment (environmental humidification. irrespective of the i of the I A characteristics in the breathing zone I I area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air samples) E characierized Kq measuring temperarure, Augenb parameters : not described. Skov et a (1967) ex- relative humidity, respirable papusdsns "momad B pourur indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern Danish bon dioxide, noise level, lighaing insensiry, relative hu town halis and 14 older control buildings. A level ol 1 midiry, and airflow. No relationship E seen between toms was related 01 "feecing" factor (carpets, upholstery. à degree of sympioms and age. I or duration and horizontal surfaces) tad the "macro-molecular I of employment at the building or time mods in the 1 I of dust. They also demonstrated - relationship between Shr on a daily I Staristically, complaints were the oumber of hours spent photocopying and using carbonles significandy more frequent I Suryous I Envi- Kdoo paper and the level of complaints. Other Hudies have ronmenial characteristics associased wish de increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985) complaint levels in this group included decreased airflow I psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute models, there a an association berween sngandsau pus- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome b mea- pended particulates and the levels of boch mucous 1 suring swonduls and environmental exposures. Robertaon et brane pue systemic complaints. Sarirfaction 1 de R (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. I environment as predicted wopdsouad ofdreft ferences la the concentrations of eaviroamental alshough regression models E I t comp 1 building. E studied the rooms with the i compl
:
velociry and increased levels angandraujo mdpopusdms 8 indoor air quality complaints.
siculates 1 dry-bulb semperature. In regression
Several studies have attempted 8 identify the actual
R not
I ventileted naturally again
clearty contribute os the I I independent of thermal I 1 insensiry I also associated 1 mudies of de sick building syndrome L mearures os idensify predictors of complaints in
of symptoms, berween rooms la a mechanically and a
H FEX
I 1 used area samples. Skov et al. (1967) did I uncre strate . relationship berween symptoms and g ares sam I ples measuring dust E a "macro-molecular" traction, Area samples la buildings ! not be representative of a exposures la different points le single I Physical characteristics soch as windows and partitions, I and shelving may infhuence air currents. Radiam I may
multiple exposures simultaneously and include paycho 5" i 1
indoor spaces. INTRODUCTION
Complaints lermed the "sick building syndrome" I lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, I pol led 6 numerous investigations in 8 last is years. They are hutants resuh from point sources, os they will be diluted as - thought Os occur primarily . newty constructed I 1 subject .n farther removed from the source. The micro 4 inp and, at least .s the pest, were thought to be # to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem, - different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroe- 1 variety of causes have been identibed le specifk settings, meat of a building. le addition. all applied occupational and inchuding inadequate temperature and relative bumidity $ environmental health research that attempes os relate € to trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds beakb effects suflers from the problem € I is penerally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, environmental lobecco measured at several points in time and then extrapolated lo < smoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicle I & allow developmem of exposure classifications a decades spent E contaminated air and boiler I sbers released # most heakh eflects are measured as . single I ol from € linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures. Where the variability of I A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnepan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom et a 1984) 1 that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to bour. such - stratepy most tail (Robertson et al. 1985) was unable os identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the micro- wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (temper- eavironment and set these characteristics le relation a à ature), relative humidity, air velocity, formaldebyde. or pos level of individual complaints at . given point .s time. This itive or negative ions between several rooms in . building report presents results of a crom-sectional investigation of . with narural and - building with mechanical ventilacion, problem building using - self-administered. I analog. where both 5 of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom E I a Amistam Prolemor of Medicine and ol Industrial and Environmental Heahh Soences at the Univeruty ol I Schoots ol Medicine and Publc Heahh. a f a Director. Environnental Heahh and Salety. Camepe-Mellon Univeruty, Pitsburgh. FA.
(Kreiss and Hodgson 1984; Hodgson 3 Kreiss 1986). marily 01 mechanical ventilation. E same proup ol authors
results is preater than the difference in avenge samples, and No investigations in the peer-reviewed literature I
a
Aticer #Rpagcis Busp
