-

by Samuel IS. Epstein
The auhor surveys the record of
industri-generated data
Emalang conteneshmsthal tonstramson data-
from Khuss madequan. bused muerpretation. ma
mpulatam. suppresnm and even lo murrighi de
NEmmm-ate tommonplace, esperially when
prohiable inhnolugirs are mohed. Alarmingh.
Muheudeme INM junhes strong resenations as 01
thevaluhn of am data developed hv institumons or
indinuluals whunr nomumi intetests are dueith or
Informatum 7 the runem ol eonumk and
pulanal jumer Deumen-making at all leveb 2 gm.
etumem prexprencstheacalabar of a bods of in-
hrmatum, IMI the han ul whic e the relative merits
al ahernate puln ursian he anahred and Humsadered.
Ifthn mkamann et data base if tal nahed or imal
ul. then whatert de NHMISJTE tea hed saus ahuhe
unpritm malul. threatemmg the laben of demm
The merwhelming talk of all beneht and Ink
data. im whah nust regulaten de Isins are based.
tumes Irem the mlunes themehe bemgregulat
a Ther data areenher generated and mterpered

muluruth atles ted

€ gmemment

un Lunt

Bunh inte thn prenrw n d sadre of innsulants,

In m-hunr M urutitu stall in In tommer 7 labens generall from presignn unnerutie or reseanh
manand universer undes tontratio mdustn maitutes, whuse stamp ul apprnal prmides the
In-hune wentith uall ane IXH mmune to un dana wnh an addanmal muntle of anhorits Thr
MARR and suhonunnn presures from texareh identes of these consultata arr ofien hidden net
and devehpornent and markemg department.any unk from the puhlu bun alu from ther oun unnel
HM le huin then produn m junew morom uthent insumutens Themdunulmereusafihew
nrir Indunanul man Kar muall ananded ise imsuhm ate eshet net diulard to the agenurs
unh li ummenal labonatones and miversmes, muhne atumers and rspen commitires thes sil.
nalunt Iublung hust lern uluned un the unde in ifdningdar I mamsamcdmssentaderus.
maiket. a piatne hatelh temuuent with the ethn bb Lat's knk at . E i hatoredavn fium
comman, mmme to unguken ptrame Conshamt ui thr (irnratiun e Dabe
and mas 1"whue mformatum a mespurtamm The munt sommen problem with mdantrull gen.
mustem with whn areprtened a themternsed etated daa 1 av I qualus Deeph tomemedin
thr tommanng mulunn, ern theugh thn hmmed thr malegun d dau submated in 1967 tn the
peteptam r mete hkeh torfectshart-erm. tath- Tiwnl and Ihng Admanistatum FDA In mduun
Smul Iptanpan partamp andr it Fanmen lawerl addine MEMELNE magmall suhmmed le the
3 1 in uf : f ul 2 Hulk - unruh 1 I8 Faxsl and Dug Admmanatum hare hern ine €

adcompensinectpssales

the Éxchtwacupspssasalandenuremmental.ame

Ihemmatee. rager lu the I ul futur
erthan kwg-tem. micresssandsalurs

m muldn al haul addane petitions, then Commn.
sinnet Ileslant Levumplamed Alunt hall ol the
har int alequtel uppaned shu regula
aul thurton luns tequnedsubur

I Moduult € : hong Ih-1-11 Sunat 1 5
i But - il PUADA hn In Pann a : (. huthn plerm

dunmathy hn pant
It
4

hamparurd

unices
exF