LOS ANGELES TI:ES Los Angoles, Californio October 20, 1954 n been proved. lale L'niversity
haurl uudn the premise that hination " a partirular type a inanection hetween riea- in each nfthe three categories Calls Tel in smoking and disease ha: has alrcady produred 'a sale Might Take Six Monthe one it is, so all can be made Dr. a Cuyler Hammond. that way. If not, the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Carence Cnok Litte, compiete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad- date. said that "some say we visorv bnard and seient fic di should wait for more defini rector o: the Toharro Indus. tive evidence before develop- try Research (ommittee, de. ing a safe cigarette. but no les which he helieves would nne hassaid just what the de- produre some nf "the defni finitive evidence weud be." iive evidence" e winch Dr Hr sand he "took issue" with Hammond referred. In his talk in the Ameriran "We wiil tarkle simultan system was more important, line of the industrv's research migh: prove surcessfal in six do not have today the experi months, "with iuck," he said menta! evidence that wilper-
cigarette JI so. scientific re- scarch should prove which should find one, "since ple like to smoke cigarettes." seribed the outlines nt stud- Tackle Unknewns
Expert for
atatistician
peo-
Safe Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming
NEW YORK, Ort. Ul (ILP this viewnoint.
The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society mreting. Dr eously manv of the unknowns arette smoking with both Hammond said the relation- in this feld of tobacen 11se in lung cancer and heart dis. ship nf rigarette xmoking to relation to human health," he ease is "overwhelming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitive once about developing "a safe health, than the relationship indings in an area where cigarette, de a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to murh suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find "a safe cigarette" from heen done. The program nf meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recngnizes tha: we the advisory board of the There are varinus types nl garding the rause and Ffert Tobacco Industry Research tohacen, there are varinus relationship hetween rrv ron- Committee ansounced some of types R. fiters, and there are mental factors, including the details nf itk scicause re- variona sonti.utjaut n! euring The most important
Cancer Society today. At the same time the scien-
Outlines Described
mit scientific eonclasions re smnkire and lune eancer: current lung cancer rase: in 10 medical centers im the En ed States and Canada
srarrh program
which tobaren, he Raid, and it may
nrocect
is he that some fortuitons rom- set up was a direr: xudy . ni
LOS ANGE LES EXAMINER los Angeles, California October 20, 1954
It will Include numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokers. as well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. The apecitio research grants, financed Aq the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY ON TOBACCO NEW YORK, Oct. 19-(PH A broad stx point study seek Ing knowledge whether eigarets or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards was announced today, It is the first announcement of - big research proxram headed by the sclentific ad- visory board of the Tobacco In. dustry Research Committee
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
