HKE2228112
SANTABANDARA SANTA:

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO

: FA. ih 4 : Aul. -ATE - ISIN : SASINAM K

IANHIA MILKMA :

VIEN in VIIWIN
PEPARTMI : : PADRER
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willian H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Rescorch rourdation
715 Kuir Lands Vista Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. Fishwan:
and Salk.

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolla rescarch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoen:ymes
should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnrent of a focal center for rcsearch proorams on oncodevelopmental
prublems is particularly ieely. It will be of orat potential importance for
pulling tegetter work, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation,
characteriztaion and dotorniriation of the significance of huran oncodevelopmental
antigens such as alphafetoprotein and carcinoembryonic antigens.
One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship
of increased serun concentrations of Arp to preralignant lesions or carcinogen
exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systers clearly derion-
strate tnet anirals pasocixo to hepatocarcinouens have elevated serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developrant of malignant timors. It is hoped that syster:tic
study of human scra frun different sources will determing if serum AFr concun-
In addition, the role of envirunsental factors such as hormonal influences on
the production of oncodevelogimental gene prih.ts can be further explored in
different sy:toas. Such data inplics that (he prod;u tion of oicodavelopmental
gene products by turor cells is net a fixed property of a given tumor but is
We look fonrard to workinn with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the important subject of oncodeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoger exposure.

subject to environmertal controls.

expression.
Best regards,
Stewart Srll, M.D.
Professor
SS/nb

à