2/4

61u/0P

IHT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Nrw York Timer Servier

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigurette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars R

made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even in recent

($2.86) compared with 22
panies can advertise on TV after
cigarettes and
an aggressive campaign. Television
gifts,"
Emen
mon
was out-
lawod in the
States in 1971.
junior high
COmmerssuns
old Cigurette packages sold in
i3yoars
and UPARL must carry - label UESP
sake g health, don't smoke loo
to
EXPAR
with than the health-warning labels
lou 08 much because of the adver.
tising Ls because they are of better
manufactur- quality and taste better. American

TAIPEI - The Marlboro cow- dn sales of $119 million. ln 1986, trade talks betwoen the United 1 Taiwan dollari E cents)fora
boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- States and Taiwan. Wang Chicn: pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghng from his mouth, has come le eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly 18 shieng Taiwan'sdeputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis
town. His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, régistered R ing in Japan are more liberal. Com-

and dod-pur-wom stores through- uw cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
guitar-playing pep-surat promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted
This frenetic, fast-growing 08- cigaretie exports last year, primari- teachers told me that
billion cigarettos last dropped long-siandiog restrictions. are DOW smoking How can
aubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta ol like that? lt's O.K. lo
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year, re- joy a $16 UOTI!9 trade
ialand, and that has created a furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes A year. that."
Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled American cigarette
tbe American companies of entic- the past year. The market share
ing teen-agers uake dn moking. more than 8
- charge the American companies from 3 percent percent s? 1986,
The sovernment-administered dicts that it could grow 9 15 8. 20 sales pitch.
operation that had monopolized percent Kq 1992.
prossure from Washington. In the alcohol.
year since stiff resirictions on for. "This really burts our
.cign cigarettes wEre dropped. sales said Jaw
have soared,
peadod growth American man-
EXRAIRE
sfacturers ata time when sales .5 export Taiwan? Younger
laws =
way 'dn

OUI this city, next to posters ola peroent.
b
Winston
of
cigarettes.
tioe of
nearly 20 million pcople
amoked 34

amusement placesto 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

most
for of the
in American
growth
ly because

ang said recently. "Many scbool- advertising of

both Tuwan and Japan school students - 12,

year and for the first time, E According to the Brown pri Wil- rette companies promote ciga- roughly translated, says, "For the
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting 51 $i billion in new sales. the United States. But surplus those people mandated in the United States.
Ufacturers have essentially intro- InJapan, which has . population are just like robbers. If you aré A Tbe 'companies Amencan
paonp cigarette advertising to the of 120 million and where people, man, human being,you woo't do cigarettes are selling MXI in Taiwan

made .a America, not Taiwan. all American-made

cigaréttes occupy the whole markets. We en- much" a warning much milder

American cigarettes increased E vigorously deny there is any-

e
botly deny.

58E
last
barjude

thing wrong with the way they are dgarettes are made of blended to
promoting their products and bacco and have less which tar than Tai-

are not

Department of Agriculture pro- ihry have no pians to change EE wanese bleoded. cigarettes,

Tbey are not allowed to advertise
La small stores where cigarettes are
sold, a well u through promo-
A feeling." legisiator. tions. Cigarette manulacturér may
dom excooda 200,000.
le
poze

the cigarette market had not adver- Taiwan officials they rosent loe television or in newspapers. Nor
A government agreed le allow markets le producta that endanger They can advertise only through
.others into the business oaly under people's health, like cigarelles and posiershung near cigaretie racks or
k American cigarettes b Taiwan L. tbe United Shau-kong Sutes docs not en- jalso place 120 ads - year b! mags-
the Unilod States are way down and femaics are smoking a -3. Belore last i foreign ciga-
and 8 number of anti-imoking causc of American E They hire retta accountod a leas than 1
According to the U.S. Depart- arettes free in sgaprutyaru k's Kna digarettes, banned imports at >g
mbet R Agriculture, people B Tai- difficult lor young boys 10 resist, 70,000 retail outlets licenaed 01 sell

tised, altbough it does Dow,

American pressure 59 open their have they pusbed to do 10, they say.

much- courage its people to amoke, why zines, cach ol whosc droulation sel-
young attractive Fro-mak-6! girla oent of tbe market. Taiwan
Suumon short skirts 01 give "P de posed strict quotas on forcip
and then it becomas a habit. Iti cigarettes and imposed stiff tariffs.

9

EA

immoral."

: rerult, imporied cigareties cost