NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A campaign. to woo Dade County teenagers away from smoking la under way bere as part of a nation-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groups, the society hopes to persuade large pro- portion of the nation's young people that amoking may Jead - Key wrapnn In the : I a a nim strip detalling thr rave I tobacen, It han already T shown to seventh graders In 15 schools $ educational televinion, and will 1 broadeant tn minih gradn arience students la the A seventh-grade program, directed by teacher Bill Evans, inchuded a panel discussion In which students directed ques- tiona at Dr. Francis N. Cooke, representing the society. - "Teachers I have talked to agree that although amoking la not a serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu- dents are approaching the age when the problem will be, faced," N Erane sald: : value A the nimstrips 1 thal IS gives studenta - logkal argument with whleh ithey eonld refuse ta meke i enrouraged by thelr atrele et frienda," ba added. the Nim atrip la also being ahmwn "live" lo senior big h achools in 3 county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October '6 .1960
Education Cuts Youth
*
Habits American eigaret spoking can by reduced * per cent through a teenage education program A the high schoola. i statistics were presenled Saturday 4 Walter G. I director of public educalion for the American Cancer Society, here for the Florida Division, 5 annual meeting I said the "NoeT.imoke" 1 was direeted at leensiers as a I fer-eurbing cancer I d the Appo eenvietion that smoking r cause ol fatal I 2 proepects of reducing cigaret smoking b one-fifth € ibinn in pilol program conducted with 7,000 high achool students a Purland, Ore, I 1 f da a Sondents i I I wne most likely to d Smoking increased in be successive high school grades. Among boys participating s the Oregon aurvey, 143 pes cent I as freshmen. 15.1 per eent : sopbemores, 311 i eent a juniors, and #4 n I A correspond- ing feures for girt stodenta were 46 per cent, 10.6 per f H or the students. KR per cent ol the boys I regularly at lenst onre - ! a R 116 per cent of the giris 4 Education programs againat smoking paonpar E mumber ol new umokers I boys from a per i to 1.7 k cent, and beginning girl mokers from LA le 1r 4: I mid & figures projected i . I peried indicaled that R per eent A high school suaprta £ g deterred from snoking through a 6 educational progrem The stody, hy I revealed that the I I approach : in I F long tarm Kfect d moking. leaving the decision s E I + 4 * Least ellective, he I : A aimple inatruction not . I As part of a I aducation prograts. a 6 has I a i drip F dfecta a r habit for Kreming la 1 school )
Fag
a cancer.
at the Lago. Mar Hotel L I I
apring.
aenme he Hgaret pabt .
14.1 per cent and M3 I
k A
a
PROGRAM ETFECTIVE
e BILL MULLEN 20100a2686
.
