- 1

a X :

-
PKJ 3n

Carcinagenesls vul 15 MI EI re2721-2725, ro61

Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke
carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butandne and
benzolaJpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of

C3420

chemopreventive agents

Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin
Amenean Health Foundation, Valhalla NY 10595, USA

models examined to date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class
of carcinogenic polyeyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco
smoke (I). We have chosen the A/J mouse because previous

The purpose of this study sem to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce
model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced
lung cancer le smokers. Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to
by déxechylairesamino-1-00-pyridy)-Lbutanore (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined
and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated.
Individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice 2 evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg
were treated by either intragastric gavage (i-g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of
intraperltoneal injection (i.p.) with various doses of NNK different compound: against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP,
and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and7.12-dimethylbenzlalanthracene (9,10).
either 9 or 61 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse of evaluate the effects of
forestomach were counted. The ig. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK
proved to be more satisfactory than "dy administration, (4.11.12). Results obtained with the Al) mouse can be replicated
because = avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl lisothiocyanate
thelnjection site and associated mortality. A dose-response (PEITC) la an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by
relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 rat (11,13).
mice killed 9 or 61 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single
treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect 01 tobacco
of rz. umol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke. which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The
have been expeeted extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important
when given kq the ig. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either
wcre complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP
The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to
evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appcars to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during
dose of 24 umol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and
subdoses ig., with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we exomined tumor yields obtained
dosing. This reginen induced 10.5+4.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP. given simultaneously for
mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks, followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61
ethylisothiocyanate, given 2 la prior 10 each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure I). This tumor model was employed in a
and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC
tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP
thls study provlde a conventent model for assessing the NNK pras synthesized is the American Health Foundation Organic Synthesis
efficacy of chemopreventive agents against Sunt cancer Facility. Rs purity was establithed by HPLC a >997. BaP (98% purity),
Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were
could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirs containing s% com oil, as previously 2
play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups ef 15 as sammarized in Table 1. At age 7 weeks. each mouse wai
kers: éc@mettylnitrosamino)-14@-pyndyp-but-butanone (NNK*) treated by imraperitoneal (ip) injection or by intragastric gavage lig) with
and benzolajpyrene (BaP) 3 NNK is b potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical la 01 mi cononseed oil. NNK und BaP were both
carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in the OI ml uned for treatment Injections and gavages were carried
*Abbreviations: NNK. Bupusnet-14(CHACH-C9GNAMESORMARMADADA individuat dese was one-eighth of the notal. Equimolar doses of NNK and
BaP, benzolelpyrene: PEITC, pheneihyl isothiocyanaic: BITC, benzyl BaP were used le most of the combination 'sdnoid because the amounts of

whlch these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given

The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively

of NNK and BaP if combination was established in the
that Bal was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK

Most previous studies in the AV) mouse have examined
We sought 01 develop a model which could be used to

Comparisons of

and RaP given individually showed representatives of the lung

in tobacco smoke

ctedpy

carcinogens

(I1.

5.925.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely
inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.

inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods

BITC 1985 (Kyund and PEITC (93% (Aund were ebtained from the Aldrich
Chemical Cempany (Milwaukee. WI). Cottonseed oll was purchased from
Female AJJ mice. age s wecks. were obtained from The Jackson Laborstory
(Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the
The desiga ofthe bioassay is illustrated . Figure 1 The mice were dividedo
out for 8 consecutive wecks The total doses are given in Tuble L Each-
NNK and total earcinogenic polyayelic hydrocarbons in tobaceo smoke are

Sigma Chemical Co. (St Louis, MO).

Introduction
of

agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).

à

isothiocyansie, ip. intriperitoncal, i intragastric gavage.

OOsford Univenity Press

2721

-