HKB2223022

Life Sciences Vol. 15. pp. 1291-1300
Printed in the Y-S.A.

Perganon Press

METAROLISK or PROtalPYEDE : Kren a - FRON
TISSUES b PRECOUNT ARD FITAL MAMSTERE
1 Y. Mang, Ronald : Rasmunsen, and T. Timothy Crocker*
Cancer Research Institute, Univeraity of California, San Pranelaco, and Depart-
I of Community and mvironnantal Medieine, Univeraity of California, Irvine*.
(Received in final form 26 August 1974)
I
Pretreatment of hansters with benzo ta)pyrene (BaP) grestly Incressed
3 sl vitro metaboliam of € à lung alerosonns i prognant I
stare, and p lese effect 5 the metabolis of BaP by itver miero-
I The produetion of various metaholites of E 3 lung niero-
sonos € inereaned to different extentar 3-hydresy-BaP (3-CH-BAP)
I ene of the najor matabolitens à netabolic yielde of €
dihydrodihydroxy-mar (9,10-diol) and 7,0-diol vere Increasod nore
than that of E 4,5-diol. In the ehse of liver nterosonee, only the
yields of 9,10-dioi and 7,0-diol were ineressed ovar the contrel
lovels, The presence of cyclohexene oxide in the incubation €
tures decreaned the production of the diole. Dasal-level enzyme
activities in placental, fetal liver, and fetal akin microsones in
metabolizing E vere very low. Pretreatnent of pregnant hainatars
with BaP indared Bap-netabolizing enzymes in tetal tierue 2-3 fold.
Banso(a)pyrent a ie . carcinosen and anvironmental contaninant that is
found in coal tar, nineral oll, : exhaust, tohacco snoke, anoked foode, ete.
(1). In vitro station shoved that netabolie activation of Bar is required for
ite intaraction vith proteins and nuclele acide (2,5). Farller studian with
rat livar preparations 14,5) and hamater liver mierosones (6,7) shoved that bar
le metahelined mainly 8 phenolie and dihydrodihydroxy (alol) derivatives, and
9 quinomes : are ensynatie or air ouidatinr peoducte & unatable phenolic
netabolitas (4,5) as vell : aoma untdentified nore polar netabolites, The
metabolies of Bat han generally been nesmured la the production of 3-hydroxy-
BaP (3-0H-RaP) vhich is aften ons of the major netalolites in vitro (3). 3-0H-
DaP ie torie te evitured celle (0), hut it shove vory 11etle interaction vith
DER in vitro (6) and has not been shown 3 % carcinogenic. & the other hand,
K-regton ipoxides of related polycyelie aronatie hylrocartons (PAR)bind $ cell-

1291