ED
9-9-P
Makersof Cigarettes Claim NoInterestin Pot NEW YORK @v) - Ciga- GRMTONE TOBACCO company rette manufacture have DO erest in réport recommendation was
%A 6 a - : AV 5 Tyesday offiçial noted that the staff legalize marijuana for per- of isons over 18 years age 2 while : the. biggest market Prevention might be a lower age brack- * - WRAX d mends legalizalion of "pot" AtiMary Jane sort d t goes with the youngsters," com- Sam Fouts, advertis- "No, no noti no = à Hng mented manager for Larus Bros. been a rumor op last E . a & Co., of Ricbmond, Va. years and thatave E. cadse 'Mary Jane is an old nick- to check de 277 thoroughly, this a name for marijuana but gen- erally has fallen Into disuse anywhere: mfuie industry. among the young. William Kloeplef & the To- fas Fouts, noting that mari- bacco Institate, declared. a juana is "still a rather taboo topic" in the cigarette in- "THERE LNSI P of. dustry, emphasized that his goes by thatsome segmént company "wouldn't touch it
say chey à diversifying to PARD mari- 0 - juana, despite a taft réport a of the on the Causes - d Violence N Zrecom- idet, for adults.
a CF
There is * to
: -
per 16 month a the underground : press doesn't cetry astory about at all." how tobacco companies arei gearing E for the marifuana trade," souretpopp Bolling. vice president and assistant Philip Morris, chairmant 3 - Inc. He PES 5973 this type of 3 speculation "vas 3 under- "algepues ne tobacco com- panjes E Apignd beld,and under strict government con- trol; noone 'can eved remote- ly become loyolved becausé at. the present" 1 ume mari- juana is illegal. 1. not : . -There have been persistent stories ) that "tobacco com- panies already have regis- tered E possible . brand names tradémarks .that in- clude some of the current ve- nacular, associated upym marijuana, and that 'they have been buying dn huge tracts ol land in Mexico on which to harvest marljuana. . - : "WE'RE NOT filing for trademark names like "Aca- pulco Gold' or buying land south ot the border," com mented, Jobr : : a S A mst ust ru - - and un not NSt 151 a 1 - de $ + aw . a GiBt hot mit in a with - - Ef E de . a 4 ifis a a 53 59 - a - . ue - hrk of i. is tuer - E KR LASS a a K onts 05 die via XBXE S - a SH -
