12
CATINGEICHT
New! Improved! Dangerous?
4MAI More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium. Experts Fear Thxic Reactions
à Lawance LININKR moee cakium tha - lund lof she Semte The Tuhinghn Pat A Calcium-Fortifled Day Estummerk 300 to 400 mtrionans a Fi hunt lef cereal with mik anda glas The enklura mecenmendation in teenagere le 1,300 mommonsiacaonts to age m, mineral, Purdur's Weever, a orange jrice for herskast. A 1.000 milligrams: and aduhs Siglus, 1.200 miligrans. Bot with the dovens of Ofcourse nint Mes mly 200 of 400 ux setiing STACKERS hochtine hamandchrese sand- willgum-the Tulerable Intake Level set a the National daily. the corvalcouk stia K une sollowed a Acalny a Saccum Lwich A1 sanck r luthe Scicirca-even : diet of N. a bt & de pt only Dat late altorexon. Atdinner, nome beefor chirk 1 oncurn Vhaway drink en and a conple a topped FORVA wgitables with - of caurma i mour calrium LE alunt a FRAREL mongrine, hiluwed n maltivits BREAKFAST € 400 miligram a € hr Rays min/ mineral pill kr - 3/4 np Total careal L.000 01t RA a & P thumb people shouki The while watchingTV la the evening a Lcup calcundatiod iskimmk 350 30 know - laltcup (olaga capiut ke qreum. Sounds lop pachmentifed Mrute Male erangel alie 300 120 wid the exocption officancy, thoughuthe prety iensonable, ngur LUNCH 2 de rescarchere agrée that it's nalcat act th ON Actually, depending on the 1 waye nope than 2.500 yun elrhm danite, mationamsufe day'e could net Ih Humand-cheene sandwick daily, regardkm of variations a abeorption beeen Max and Taxe and cald 2a2 han 5 83 I 1 upun à NIC um tigaticantly taire Shastoman agrapu.am lot I choese 272 107 netrent grangadune L Wundur - Upper Intake of2.500 edligrans set Engha - 150 130 Wod mys that staylngwithin the linuit k the the Ruas Aradeny P Skienees AFTERNOON SNACK aportinlar concern 54 hanchuale RASS So many foodiarenow fortifedwith - Nuttoraln bar 200 a moliur tryingh of more caktiun calcium thata has 140 SHARA beegne madreasier lego DINNER leenage son who already grts plenty to over the safety limait. Ant that has sene EUR sher dint of the umount of Ste trition 30 skinless duckan lanast 13 142 - bay cakiura wy. -STORESSER anything lce 1 € 2 . 1/2 oup hroccol, tapped with 47 26 seanfortitied " cerent a saye chiet of 11 2083 Richard Wod, the apprisont Semat Courtry Crock Pha Calaum 17 benasles milk et out a - theanke COMMETS Nioivelsbaty Labomtory af the Ibaked potate, tapped with 22 5 212- - aller heelelt ur LE R couplect itenan Nutrition Reseanch N and SURL STRAN Center Ibsp Shedfs Seread Country Ruek Mus 100 - 50 que A un poysing por he University Boeton. "The window betwee LOMAGRAMBINAGLES 162 - coult cusly gung thousands of no eutimal F -AS MEELLA limat R6 Roumofcalcham ilvely mall Shopert Frat EU EVENING SNACK Wood and other reseerchers uhe autree ntahthelly UNASH 100010 1,300mil lep Drenrs Calelum Rip vatiba ice cream GOO 260 datanbent to opetyourcakkum fromant Tama day on agh. Osly twice Cost marketadin Gant ant Safeentyl ap R foods rather - coe or two heavily that amont, Rail and reached the sadety furtified enes and Uut at least sopae of orling Fur other eutrienta, youra TOTAL 3,304 1,487 shouldrome from aun pood . have herome I anay I - - - - - 1 ucth man yeo - I - - 16 Net - "IGsturig Weaver - 1000 - - hr GRANANDA h Langerant in inter 1 an I trate nome - wayh I have been deficient radcium have in A "WAR can SERR too mach lm in manositm, vitamle 1 enleitus over Fahress sys there have FE ESCAN WOUNNGARD vitamin I mailaber E milk, your beun fon theonder of30case reports"ofcal SEE purv wasa part RI oncatop shupping de cium tonkity, which can manidest itarta ligram le The PFE ( A perbape papassony haction. researcher at Creighton University in she comments le certalnir 1 the Ohrelush called, inper ularty le Lue ucher tion locacarch Center Mone furmation, whu - people I I too, 2 conventra Mauppont Thavan BRAMANT spocemed thata have hadastone part. marh mk whe cooune more than ELE EU - un can alo redpce of two Some ESE EEEE abaurgtion other claims de coscutsalmineralociron: pues rine the biterad laredy ona a in hare FETE wach couberds wtich 4 accossary ke wound braling and East. Alrica who ve - FT Nyh Thaty tahe 0293 dictary cholces because Aextionhe R the isanune ryiten miligans woth EF heavily fortified . Fax SUMPOND A *****************101 and de thea 300 Scht 59741 study 7000millignm are alvieel te malkrw ays Hidedin dicte SOCOMLONUR ' te . - ax I K wys miligam pailest different I Flort at Pur duendzine in the when he even have ESE you rase Secssarder nach bave been aminiacel While problems anta which Singace saschalke 1 to Thafs just 1 a Fill Manunt sow, 4 pkthora d Iteum 10, Stick calciun-lortisied COLLONA addod EUR prodarer General hand, he cause getting a caddunt, ML mw 8 sbelves the I de PROSARA superunariet rabes levi that 4 EUR market I the in vereal EE ly PORER M.RUMENT tirvet R Sansesssquassgjpyn ecommen, XW ervam that ipnt a X Ungubhrate Contate suinupenu sorbed inmilk. Inclieli vitamin Nut tht Wood thinks pagnappriangs YE calchm per halkeuphatest nf the every OOE mitionn conumed which is calclum absorp FRECE bpical 1 necessary fookareal hadi thing "ithink thereagond 100 mitigrams, a EURANE au EST ELE a too machsodjum lu fush the I lourr dun n 11 un the ina avesup mineral from a POSTANEND Nm MARRAS wrenm ROPRESSE averup Ailda Connle Vilenver michum lavestiga rate - you hane h other minda, 1 only abut 700 mallymm - Junt he when they shoukl a 1.000 11 if Tihate thececineol I L000 andunidumo cuase Ry Tual CLA your 52 doesn't And and FR MENTON leraux wunen From older, oig" loent lota duicalies alout 130 a mcan you vecoveredall the hoses." Abould he wetting 1.200 milligrams, are tak and solving one ligrams the the Total Since E PE leg only EU Uot mount itsa sin problem whle one Ipreva ETR aboun i OBRES yee Bating Right evhannint Lawwence FE - - LECLONTA F lar dory for men, althonch thegp for thres irace 140000 I abunt 15000 then, Heaner Nays Lindner 2 connwting alitorefihr nytr hoftre inne - and RES eon the onder df200 SR LE -
cakcum-fortifed foods on the market today, Inveny to commente more than 2,500 on Toaly 1,000 ralurios Check eut the Launing guent
Upper
i aral Bune Metaboli-e Lab at Tults, dis of matrinats N muten sn A the "XXXXX 4900 tin ofa single nutrient aphad into diviled doses throughont the guately. "Yon dont get hok unk
thom, diaines and wt thoue cal Olhen None that calcium-fortifled hode agres She 4 queations the LOND m mhen hatle more amen ir www er hideyn, made de thue "might be area roononatie option. Hover the concept lumans et rakclum nwr sitet to every NTY ing to get cakim bet ml I de purticululy winemhin," b renurks and of Thatificution," siys Robert Heury.acks ing offital ecreal, Than an exegasive level ether substanns from enlelen-latiel Then. lopercakemis, as toxicity et Omman And I I he's I partie COMPTART an moreendonted peobably higher Inwin Rosenberg director the Nutri
whs depend ona SCAMIN Rou will Qais morcalciomit thinkiog they're
madilency remarks a (the amount le op (mak), the bodyah Binand perfaps at Pardue Univernity le Wut Lalayette, al kar FRAN ln one Muing- um h only ene
iden,"he wys a letabre ure mach, g4 mised locing on the juek laod situs toomilligrams or ronghly TISMOdes exisetne. Buth
ilm Dunsun N chief of the Cals Inothr minia yuahe net absurbingberribly Unineraity Ilrafih 6 Nulritiontelles
