BOULDER DATLY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
Area stores
SAI
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For tha Delly Camera nors. kids. km
refercing to the Increased enforce- penaliy Tor selling tobacco to a m!- tried w buy the cigaretles. The
ment.
Boulder police stung 11 busl- Store clerks unlucky enough OF nesses this week during 8 craçk. gercaught were issueda summons- doun on selling cigarettes s mi- to appoar uI court. Tho maximum The sting. conducted on the eve -horis R 00zs. fine of. the American Cancer Soclety's The Supa involved two tcams. Great American Smokeout, wras in- Fach included a uniformed 'omcer. tended to educate clerks that it's il- a pigin clothes amcer. and two legal to sell tobacco products to Falrviow High Schoo girts, Who Police. targeted gas stations, son: giris' parenis signed S waiver al. vénience, drug, grocery and die lowing themlolale part thc. op Tayhas neverbeer enforced, said The juvenlles were tojd not to popinog Policc Oicer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "We're leiting the stores know had 9 show identification.
-
count stores. Unuil recently, the eration. this is going o happen," ahc sald,
the cigarettes. and, I asked, they (Sce BOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors & At the Conoco station, 8000 2620 Broadway, pegan 01 cry 28th SL, one of the giris asked when she was isties the cashiar for a pack of Marl mons, oys cafd Ohg 9A stu boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- guop, and couidnt aiord the ness, 5, plain clothes, poolg in ourt Costs. Aankeness pody 01 itna-hehind her to witness thç sont0le hér, saying she couly A placard near the cash regis- the Distriet Attorey to do tuos - ter read, PI ID my own mother. munity ecrvice instradof paying clerk asked to see some identif- The clerks, not the store owne cation. The buyer produced lier ers or matugers, have to pay the.. she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'L do it 19 usjund cd at the license, act it down on stores or clerks," she said. "Al-: the counter, and sold her the though, when you acc clerks ciys Afler they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targcted 9T stepped da and identified him aloros and clerks a mLbur four sell as a police officer. Manka received summonses. came in and wrote the clerk a Thic wock'a operation wias the. rrarA I see them ask for an year. Tha first sting, condueted. E I think they're going to 2 in September, targeted 16 stores esny the cale," Haukeness sald. und 97 clerks recelved sum
(From Page 1C)
The clerk af Colony Market,
ume
transaction.
prububly work out a deal. with-
No ID, No Sale, No Way," The the Ane, driver's license, wiich showed court costs.
cigarettes. summons.
ing, you mnight think otherwise. sccund tobacco sale sling is4T
"But they never do."
manges.
