Carcinogeneis vel 15 n41 13 np - 27** 194 arcinogens met chemopreventive agents
ung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke benzola)pyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
osan
and
C3 4.20
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencas Fiealth Foundation. Valhalla, NY 10595. VSA by 1-msthylalitrosamino)
models examined 0 date (2). BaP le a protorype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I) We have chosen the A/J mouse because previous
The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluntion of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas ane induced lung cancer In smokers, Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantihed and their progression to and benzofalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice CI evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastric gavage (i-g-) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of intraperitoneal injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and - dimethylbenialamhracen: (9.10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse o1 evaluate the effects of forestomoch were counted. The ig. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4.1 1,12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse can be replicated because = avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injection site and associated mortality A dose - response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by ig- administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 rat (11,13). mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The hihest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect to tobacco of 24 jmol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke. which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1), The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important Comparisons of NNK and BaP eiven individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (1. when gis en by the ig. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality, before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP. The most favorahle dosing reginien of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 pmol of cach, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the mode! should be relatively rapid and subdoses i-g-, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we exomined tumor yields obtained dosing. This regimen induced 10.5 #4.4 lung adenomas upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethy! isothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure I This (umor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzy! isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation. reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP. efficacy of chemopreyentive agents against lung cancer Facility. hts purity was establihed A4 HPLC as >99. BaP (98% purity), Our goal iE this study was to develop a simple model which American Heaith Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They ere could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dint containing 56 com oill. a prev iously, 2 play a major role ln the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups cf 15 as sammarized le Table 1. At age 7 weeks. each mosase was kers: (metlylnitrosamino 3-pyridy!)- I-butanone (NNK) treated 5 inraperitoneal (ip injection or by lntragastric gavage (is) win and benzolalpyrene (BaP) 3 NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriane chemical jn 0.1 ml cononseed oil. NNK and BaP MEre bon carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung le all rodent dissolved in the 0. ml used for treatment Injections and gavages were carrie Abbreslations: NNK. 4-(mahy! Initrosamino) pyeld,! -butunane: individuat dese was ene-cighth of the cotal. Equimolar doses of NNK - a Ba?, benzolelpyrens: PEITC, phencihyl isathiocya anaie: BITC, benzyi Bap were used in most of the combination groups, bacause the amounts at
ridyl)- -butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined
which these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
Most previous studies in the A/) mouse have examined We sought 01 develop a model which could be used to
5.9 * 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely thls study provide a convenlent model for assessing the induction by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
Inbibiting forcstomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
NNK 1s synthesized in the Americas Heatth Foundacion Organic Syathesis BITC 86) purity) and PEITC 69856 (Aynd wCIC abtained from the Aldrich Chemical Cempany (Milwaukee. wtj. Cottonseed oll sas purchased from Female A) mice. age $ weeks. wene obtoined from The Jackson Kaovcrogen (Bar Harbor. ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the The desiga of the bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1. The mice were divided out for 8 consecutive wecks. The toral doses ae given s Tuable L Riad NNK and total carcinogenic polyeyelic hydrocarbons in sobacco smake are
Sigma Chemlcal Co. (S1 Louis, MO). described (4).
introduction to
agents against wo of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought
isothios rae 'd lntriperitoncal, : introgastric gavage.
o Oford Uavenity Press
2721
