SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H. complains associaed with the "sick building syndrome
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
lC al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire. The sympioms were more commoa e bild-
In e cross-sectional investgarion in & building, office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validased wene measured on e lincar analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and Ar che same time. the micro-environmend (environmental humidification, irespective of the ae of the buildings. A characteristics in the breaching zone racher chan area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air samples) E characierized by measuring EMyper a quality parameters -s nos described. Skov et al. (L961) es- relacive hamidiry, respirable suspended, perticulases, ar amined indoor air quality symptoms ls 14 modern 1 bon dioride. noise level, lighaing inensiry, relacive kar to halls and - older control buildings. A I of 1 midiry, and airflow. No relarionship E secn berween 1 -as related 01 a "fcecing" factor (carpets, upholsery. che degree of sympioms and age. educarion, or dunstion and horizontal surfaces) - & the "macro-molecular I of employmen at the building or time spent in dhe budld- nent" of dust. They aiso demonstrated a relationship berween Sr on a daily basis. Suaristically, complainc wTE the oumber of hours suads photocopying and using carbonies significandy more frequent among Supyous Men. Eavi- Adoo paper and the level of complaints. Other srudies have rommental charecterisics associased 1 dhe incroased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985) complaint levels b: chis group included decressed airflow and prychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1964) cootribute models, chere à 5 association benween nespin a- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome 5 : pended particulates and the levels of boch MCONE I suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et brane and sysemic complaints. arisfaction $ & P (1985) wErE unable to demonstrate 3 measurable dif. chermal ervirorment B predicied by percepcion of dnaft ferences le the concentrations of eaviroamental pollutants R nOE clearly conaribue to che degree of ympioms, between rooms ls a mechanically and a naturally veutileted ! ragression models PIP 6 2 conypk 9 building. They studied the rooms with the f METE nof independent of thermal panameers. : ing I and used area samples. à et al. (1987) did compl I inensiry a also associated $ comyplaints. 1 strate a relationship between sympioms and both ares I mudies of & $ building syndrome should cxamine ples Suynsesu dust and a "macro-molecular fraction, 1
velociry and increased levelso! respirable suspende par to indoor air quality complaints.
sicalates and dry-bulb "Munadws & mession
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
-
1 exposres simulaneoualy and 1 prycho a area samples.
socia measres a idenaify predictors of I by
Area samples is buildings may n be representative of the exposures in different points in # rooms. Physical and shelving may influence air currents. Radiant heat may
indoor spaces. INTRODUCTION
characteristics such a windows and
partitions, computers.
Complaints sermed the É building syndrome" have lead 01 uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally. mout t led 0 numerous investigations in the last 15 years. They a hutants resukt from point sources, 0E they & be diluted a a thought to occur primarily le newty constructed oflice 1 subject a farther removed from the soarce. A micro * ings and, at least in the past, were thought to be 8 to viroament around desks and I cubicles may have very inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Nevertheles, a different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroe # variery of causes have been identibed le specific settings. ment of a building. ln addition. all applied occupational and including inadeguate emperarure and relative bumidiry coG- enviroamental health rescarch that attempes to relate dose so trol, noise, ( vibration, volatiie organic compoands heakh eflects sufliers from the probiem that dose la penerally and formaidehyde. microorganisms, enviroamental sobecco measured at several poiats in time 3 then extrapolated to smoke, pesticides, dust. entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decadies 1 3 contaminated air and boiler I fibers released * most health eflects are measured a a single resak of from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sampling A group of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of sympsoms may change no merely trom et a 1984) passalins that these complaints were related pri- day to day but from hour 1o hour, 1 a stratepy must fail. (Robertson et al. 1985) was unable to identify diflerences le attempsed le characierize air-quality parameters ls the micro- wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperarure (semper eaviroament and set these characteristic 9 relation 1o the ature), relative humidity. air velocity, formaidehyde. or # level of individual complaints at a given point ls j This itive or nepative ions between several rooms le a bailding report presents results of a cros-sectional iavestigation of a with narural and a building with mechanical ventilacion. problem building using a self-administered, lincar I where both sets of rooms had high leveis of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom :  a Aasisuant Prolessor of Medicine and ol lndstrial and Eaviroamental Heakh Sciences at the Unrverty of of Medicine Publc Heahh. : I a Direcsor. Environmestal Heakth and Salery. Camepie-Mellon Universty. Pirtsburgh. PA.
(Kreiss and Hodpson 1964; Hodgson and Kreiss 1966). marily to mechanical ventilation. The same dnod of acthors
results la greater than the difference in average samples, 3 No investigations in the peer-reviewed litersture I
Schools Pieburgh
and
