FF

Principal InvestigateuProgram Director (Last, first, middie):

Cardenas. M.E.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH
POSITION TITLE

Give the following information for the key personnel and consultants and collaborators. Begin with the principal

investigatoriprogram director. Photocopy this page for oach person.

NAME

Kara Dolinski

Graduate Student

EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or other initial prolessional education, such as nursing. and include postdoctoral training.)

YEAR
CONFERRED
1992

INSTITUTION AND LOCATION

DEGREE
Ph.D.
(candidate)

FIELD OF STUDY
Genet tics
Technical Writing &
Editing

Duke University, Durham, NC

Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA B.S.

RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Concluding with present position, list, in chronological order, previous employment, experience, and
honors. Key personnel include the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate ie the scientific development or execution of the project.
Key personnel typically will includo all Individuals with doctoral or other professional degrees, but in some projects will include individuals at the masters of
baccalaureate level provided they contribute in a substantive way o1 the soieritific development or execution of the project. Include present membership on
any Federal Government public advisory committee. List, in chronological lorder, the titles, al authors, and complete relerences to all publicationsduring the

past throo years and te representative earlier publications pertinent le this application DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.

August 1993 present
May 1992 May 1993
1988 - 1992

Graduate Student, Duke University, Department of
Lab Technician. Biogenesis of the Yeast Vacuole
(Elizabeth Jones). Carnegie Mellon University
B.S. Degree. Technical Writing
Graduated with University Honors.

Genetics, Durham, NC

and
Editing.

Biogenesis of the Yeast Vacuole, Carnegie Mellon

University.

Publications:

J. Heitman, M.E. Cardenas, T. Breuder, C. Hemenway, M. Lorenz, R.S. Muir, E. Lim, L.
Goetz, D. Zhu, and K. Dolinski. Antifungal effects of cyclosporine and FK506 are
mediated via immunophili-dependemt calcineurin inhibition. Transplantation Proc. 26,
Hemenway, C.S., K. Dolinski, M.E. Cardenas, M.A. Hiller, E.W. Jones, and J. Heitman.
vph6 mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae require calcineurin for growth and are defective

2833-2834, 1994.

in vacuolar H+-ATPase assembly. To Be Sumitted to Genetics.

PHS 398 (Rev. 9/91)

(Form Page 6) Page
50664551

FF

Number pages consecutively De the botsom throughout the application Do noi use sullixes such as 3a, 3b.