HK82228112 SANT SAHBAR : 11S 5
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
L : x
: s 1 - MPAKTME / : FAis January 3, 1977 Dr. Willian H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Researci roundation 715 Kuir Lands Vista Hay La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. Fishman: and Salk.
We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of the La Jolia rescarch cormunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establisnnent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodeyelopmental prublems is particularly ieely. It will be o! ovat potential importance for pulling togetter work by a number of laboratories directed touard isolation. characieriztaion and doterniriation of the sionificance of hurian Onçodevelcpmental antigens such as alphafvtuprotein and carcinoesbryonis antigens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship of increased serusa conçentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinogen exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and nouse model systers clearly derion- strate tnet anirals exposed to hejatocarcinogens have cleva ated serum AFP concen- trations prior to developrant oi malignant Lucrs. It is hoped that systeratic study of hunan Scra frut differert aources vill determing if seru AFP concun- In addition, the role of envirunsental factors such as hormoal influences on the production of oncodevelopmental gene r-hs can be further explored in different sy: tens Such data implies that (he prod:u tion of ohc ocave elopmental gene products by turor cells is net a fixed property of a given tumoir but is We look foncard to vorkinn with ycu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the important subjert of oncodeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinones exposure.
Subject to environmçrtal controls.
express ion. Best regards, Stewart Sell, H.D. Professor Ss/nb
