Vol.

No. 29

EDITORIALS

1517

The New England
Journal of Medicine
Official Organ of
The Massachusetis Sedical Society
Founded la 1812 as die NEvr ESGEAND JOUENAL oP
MEDICENE SURGERY and continued in 1828 Se Vol. of
the Bosros MEDICAL AND SUAGICAL JOUANAL
PUBLIsHES WEEKLY 8y IHI COMNITTEE oN PUBLICATIONS
or THE MASMACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY
Claude E. Welch, M.D., Ghnineen
Joseph Carland, M.D., EDITOR EMERITUS
Franz J. ingelfinger, M.D., EDIToR
ASSOCIATE EDroas
George S. Richardson, M.D., Boor REVIEWS
Robert O'Leary, ASSISTANT EDIToR
EDITORIAL BOARD

ACTION NO ASBESTOS
ASBESTOS workers Bre umintentional victims of
industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary
fibrosis, pleural calcification, mesotheliomas and lung
cancer. Asbestos exposure a now widespread,
wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the
lungs of people without indlustrial asbestos ex
posure. Whatever the exact nature % asbestos or
ferruginous bodies may be, there is no doubt that
electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers
ease in the general population at this time, the
presence of asbestos in their lungs le disturbing.
Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by
most chemical and physical means and can foat
freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods.
Asbestos discases have a long latent
sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must
be made now, on the basis of "reasonable probabili-
& rather than after a delay for a precise definition
of dose-response relations.
These thoughts are reinforced by the work of

involving not

air but also

ASD

only

drinking water,

Alexander Marble, MD.
Samucl Proger, M.D.

Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al-
Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-

20
period,

Jane L Desforges, M.D.
Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.

Ronald a Malt, M.D.

Arnold L. Smith, M.D, years or more. We therefore believe that more

Robert E, Johnson, M.D.
Norman  Levinsky, M.D.
Francis D, Moore, M.D,
Charies A. Sanders, M.D.
Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D.
Ronald A. Arky, MD.
Dana L. Farnsworth, M.D.

John W. Lidefield, M.D. Murphy and assoclates in this fssue of the Journal
Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, 6 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in
Louis Weinstein, M.D, new ship construction include better than
John R. David. M.D. exposure data and Indicate a high incidence of as-
Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. pestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have
Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-

Howard Bleich, M.D,

usual

Isadore N Rosenberg, M.D.
Milton C. Paige.Jr., BUSINESS MANAGER

tions. A second study of Murphy et al. reports two
cases of pleural disease (one mesothelloma) in
workers who sanded asbestos floor tiles. Since the

AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission 10 the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au-
ual should consult "Information for Authors." This material thors simulated the working conditions and found
may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour- conçentrations of 1.3 Gbers per milliliter 'of room
nel, or it may be obcained from the loanaal office. The entire air. This concentration le less than 1/5 of currently
CASE REFORTS, usually published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 10 Abers every
gence" section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled

manuscript, including references, should be typed double
spac & and all material, including hgures, should be submit-
reference to articles reporting closely related cases. A very Rbers remains in the
short case report or a description of a technic submicted as a
"BRICF RECORDING" should be limited o1 500 seords.
MATEREAL printed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period.
cine is covered by copyright, The Jourwal does not hold itself
responsible for statements made by any contributor.
NOTIcES should be received not later than noon on Mon-
day, 24 days befone date of publication.
cies published. Requests should be sent to the author.
imply endorsement by the Journal,
Arbor, Michigan 48106.
chusetus 02115.

used threshold limit values. A

fber per milliliter of
figures suggest that

ted in duplicate.

room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per
an alarming number will still accumulate over a 10-
A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation-
 Academy of Sciences panel has called for control
of asbestos emissions at the source and for protec-
The report also calls for further rescarch on the

these
lung,

REPRINTS: The, Journal does not stock reprints of the artl- tion of those who ane exposed in their occupations.
ALTHOLGH all advertising material accepced is expected to biologic effects and the physical characteristics of
conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance docs not asbestos fbers; such data are urgently needed "if a
SUBSCRIFTION PRICES (worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with
interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates are in U.S. fundsonly, confidence." Although we endorse these recommen-
M:CRORILSE volumes available to regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for
through University Microfilms, 31S 'N First Street, Ann technical controls based on existing
COMNUNICATIONS shouid be addressed 1o the New Eag- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as-
land journal of Medicine, 00 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other Aibers and analysis of their effects

knowledge.

on cells and tissues are important and must be con-