WIACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRIBUNE D. 25,605 $. 49,326 WACO METEOPOLITAN AREA HAR S i963
F.C Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard-. -Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission frons going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarctte So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it does not scem right or logical that one medium of advertising be forbidden the producer while newspapers, maguzines, billboards and e ounter displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress le expectod to review the FCC propnsal and to look again at the federal law, which expires Junp 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the warning "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC said it bw proposing to refuse Jicenses to broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising becauso of evidence that Buryours is injurioum to hcalth and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public intercst. 'This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigser than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals to do as they please so long as they doa't harm ancther. It also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if you don't mention somefhing. maybe de won't Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democret. and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com- merce Commitice, snid in reference to the proposed FCC rule that the Koutlu had overstepped the bounds of its nuthority. He said he douibts that FCC has any riglt to tell an advertiser what he could not say in Jis advertisements. Rogers said Congress will take a close lcol: at the whole question o! regulutions on television and radio advertising content. not only as 01 the Federal Communications Commission but in regard to Federal Trado Commission praclices as The stakes invalved extend beyond the business of brondcasling. They, 08 to the hcart of whe:her government burcaus should he allowed to 03 beyond
advertising.
Hazardous to Your Health.
hurt you and wi)l disappcar.
well. -
tho limits of due proccss and thc law,
