- ? Dis Val. 35 No. 1.pp 17-26. 1985
Priased in Great Britain All rights reserved

0021-9681 85 $3.00 0.00
Copyrighe C 1985 Pergamon Press L.d

PSYCHOSOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ADOLESCENT
SMOKERS BEFORE THEY STARTED SMOKING:
EVIDENCE OF SELF-SELECTION
A PROSPECTIVE STUDY
CARL C. SELTZER and FRANK W. OECHSLI
Peabody Muscum. Harvard Liniversity Cambridge. MA 02138 and the Child Health and
Developmeat Studics, School of Public Hcalth. University of California. Berkeley.

CA 94720, U.S.A.
(Recrinnd in rrised formt 17 dayust 1984)

Abstract- Evidence of noncomparability of self-formed smoker and nonsmoker groups of
adolescents from the Child Health and Development Studies of the University of Califomia.
Berkeley. was found in a study of antecedent psychosocial characteristic (observed at ase 10)
before the adoption of the smoking habit. With possible confounding factors controlled. eventual
smokers showed significantly greater prevalence than nonsmokers of Type A personality traits.
eutraversion: psychoticism. anger. and nestless sleep Eventual smokers were lower in socio-
economic status than nonsmokers. and also eshibited significantly lower mean scores for the
Raven Progressive Matrices and Peabody Picture Vocabulary tesis For cach trait, the trends of
the data were consistent in boys and giris. Since Aurw of these traits are shown to "track" into
aduit life. where they are tben rdated o coronary heart disease. the role of sdf-sclection requires
further consideration in causal inferences about smoking and coronary heart discase

INTROD LCTION

N] RECENT years, many published studies have shown an association that suggests a role
for psychosocial factors in the pathogenesis of CHD [. 3]. in the Framingham Study.
univariate and multivariate analyses showed a positive relationship of certain psycho-
social factors to CHD and also 01 cigurette smoking [3-5). The pervasive question of
temporal precedence and a priori self-sclection still reyuires further clarification. however.
In the absence of controlled experiments. the effects of cigarette smoking on health have
been inferred from observational studies that compare persons who smoke with
nonsmokers. In these comparisons. the disease outcomes are assumed to occur in cohorts
ofsmokers and nonsmokers who were initially similar in all relevant characteristics except
for the difference in smoking habit. Very little evidence has been available. however. to
The unique data of the Child Heaith and Development Studies (CHDS) of the
University of Califomia, Berkeley. provide an opportunity t9 check this assumption by
examining antecedent characteristics associated with teenage smoking [6-8]. The CHDS
is a prospective investigation of children from birth to late adolescence At snouea stages
of their development, the children were examined as to their biological, social. and
In this report. we have analyzed the antecedent psychosocial characteristics of a large
cohort of boys and girls before some of them later began cigarette smoking as teenagers
Reprint requests should be addressed to: Frank * Oechsli. Child Health and Deselopment Studies,
This project 1 - supported ba Grant E from the Peahody Muscum. Harsard L'niversity

verify this assumption.

personality status. as well as environmental and familial linfluences.

2131 University Ave.. Berkeley. CA 94704, U.SA.

8 38 -

7