LOS ANPIES TIES
Los Angeles, Californio
October 20, 1954
n
been proved,

hainl upnn the premise that hinatinn n" a partirular type
naneetinn hetween rica in each nf the three categaries
ne smoking and disease 2 has alrcady produced 'a safe
Might Take Sis Months one it is. so all can be made
Dr. 3 Cuyler Hammond that way. 1 not, the research
who was in charge ol the most Dr. Clarence Caok Litte,
compiete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad-
date. said that "some say we sisnre bnard and seient'fie di
tive evidence before develop- trs Research Committee, de-
ing a safe cigarette, bus no ies which he helieves wanlt
nne has said just what the de- prndune some nf "he defni
finitive eviience wnud be." live evidence" in waich Dr
Hr sasd he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In his Talk 1n the Ameriran "We wiil Tarkle simultam.
ssstem was more importans, line of the industry's researeh
migh: prove surcessful in *ix dn not have today the experi
months, "with luck," he said menta! evidener that wil prr

cigarette IE so. seientific re-
scarch should prove which
should find one, "since peo-
ple like to smoke ciparettes.
rector a! the Toiarrn
seribed the outlines nf stud-
Tackle Unknewns

Calls
Safe
Cigarelfes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming
NEW YORK Ort. 19 (ILP)

Expert
for

lale 1'niversity statistician

should

wait for more defini

Indas-

this viewnoint.

The rvidence connecting cig- Cancer Snciets meeting. Dr cously mans o! the unknowns
arette smoking with bath Hammon sairt the relation- in this field of tobacen Isp in
lung cancer and heart dis. ship nf rigarette smoking to relation to human health. S he
ease is "overwhelming" and the heart and the vascular said in announcing the out-
something should be done at from the standpoint ol public program. "We seek definitive
once abour developing "a safe health, than the relationship findings in an area where
cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to much suggestive sork has
cal scientist told the annual find a safe eigarette" from heen done. The program nf
meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recngnizes tha: xe
Tobacen Industry Research inhacen, there are varinus relationshn hetween rri ri-
Cummitteo ansnunced some of types nf fiters, and these are menral factors, inelnd inc
the details nf Eus seieatifie re varinus terhniques n! curing The most

Cancer Soclety today.
At the same time the scien-
tihe advisory board of the
srarch prngram

Outlines Deseribed
There ate various types nl
which : tobaren, he sair. and it may

mit scientific conclsyons PA
garding the rause anri rFers
smnkine and lune rancer
important prneet
eurrent lung eancer rases in
10 medical centers in :lie :n
ed States and Canada.

he that some fortuitans rnm- set up was a dinres iy 5

901 ANGE LES EXAMINER
los Ange les, California
October 20, 1954

It will include numerous
studles of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers.
a well as tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. The apecifie research
grants, financed by the TIRC,
will be announced Jater.

HFAITH

ON TOBACCO
YORK, Oct. 19-P)
A broad sbe-point study seek
Ing lenowledge whether eigarets
or other forms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health baz.
ards was announced today.
It is the first announcement
of a big research proxram
headed by the selentifie ad-
visory board of the Tobacco In
dustry Rese areh Committen

NEW

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062