du/n!s

I7

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
New Vork Timer Servicy

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 08 New Taiwan dollars .
made cigarettes last ysar, ringing became E issue even is recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22

TAIPET The Murlboro cow- dn sales of $119 million. le 1986, trade E between the United New Taiwan dollars E cents) for a
boy ls his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Suaics and Taiwan. Wang Chicn- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes Dow hold nearly iB shieng. Taiwan' 5, deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis-
tow. His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered & ing bs Japan are more liberal. Com-
Tuyrjd-ns jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted give out free cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign. Television
This frenetic, fast-growing GA cigarette exports last year, primari- teschers told me that junior high lawod in the United Suates in 1971.
tion of nearly 20 million pcopie > because both Taiwan and Japan school students 12, E! yoars old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
amoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long suandiog restrictions, are now smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry a labcl that,
year and for the first time, e According to the Brown & Wi- rette companics promote cigaretics roughly traoslated, says, "For the
rubstantial number of them were liamsoo tobecco Corp. exports ol like that? Id's O.K. to have them sake of health, don't smoke too
made is America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- mucb" a waring much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy 915, billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan. American man- sulting 5 si billion in new sales. the United States. But those people mandaied in the United States.
Wacturers have essentially intro- ln Japan, which has a population are just like robbers. JI you are A Tbe companies say Amencan
ing teen-agers a take da mmoking. more than 01 perceot last year, thing 2uoi with the way they are cigaretter are made of blended to-

and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.

panies can advertise on TV after

o01 this city, next to posters % a peroent.
es of Winston cigarettes.

"They go 01 amusement places 1o 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

for most of the growth is American be said recently. "Many scbool- Supape of cigarettes was out-

paonp cigarette advertising 00 the of 120 million and where people,
island, And tbat has created a furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year B
Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripied 5 Amcrican
tbe American companies of entic- the past year. Tbe market share o
The sorerametadminiserd dicts that la could grow to ia 8. 20 sales pitch.
operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992.
pressure from Washingion. In the Aloohol.
cign cigarettes WETE dropped. sales said Jaw
have soared, generating much- courage its
Deapod growth for American man-
laws l way dn

human being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taivan
nos 0E much beczuse of the adver-
manufactur- tising a because they are of better
quality and taste better. American
and bacco and have less tar than Tai-
producta thes say wancse cigarettos, which we not

cigarette
their

American digarettes increased to 6 vigorously deny there a any-
Department of Agriculture pro thry have no plans to change
American pressure to open their have they pusbed todo 10, they s4y.

charge the American companies
tised, altbough it does now.

botly deny.

frons 3 percent 5 1986, and the promoting

bleoded.

Tbey are not allowed 19 advertise
a small storcs where cigareties are
a legislator. tions. Cigarette manulacturens may
to amoke, why zines, cach ol whosc diroulation sel-
dom cxooods 200,000.
young Attractive 19-yoar-ol girla oent of tbe market Taiwar à
Suuvan short skirts 01 give dut cis posed strict quotas on foreipn
and then it becouos a habit. It's cigaretter snd imposed stin tariffs.

the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officink say they resent o0 television or in newapapers. Nor
The government agreed to allow markets to producta (hat éndanger Tbey can advertise only througb
others into the business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and posters hung near cigarette racks of
ycar since stiff reetrictions on for. "This really burts our feelings. - sold, as well as through promo-
a American cigareties a Taiwan  tbe United Shau-kong. Suates docs not an also place 120 ade a year in mARA-
the United Suates are way down and femaics are smoking a lor be- Before last yoar, forcign ciga-
and tbe number of anti-smoking causc of American ada. & hire rettes accountod for icas than - per-
According 01 U.S. Depart- arettes froe in nightclubs. W's vory cigarettes, banned imports at the
asect al Agrioulture, people B Tai- difficult lor funok boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed to sell

poople

sfacturens at . time when sales in export to AuVANL Younger poople

the

immoral."

Asa result, imported cigaretiee cost