NEWS
MIAMI HERALD Oetober 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A $ campaign to Dde County teenagers away from smoking le under way here a part of a nation-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. through schools By working and youth groups, the society hopes le persuade a large pro- portion of the nation" - young people that amoking may Jead S cancer. Key wrapnn ln 5 e a à 1 le a nin sirip detalling the - against tobscen, Ie has already 1 ahews te senth graders in 13 achools $ eduratienal telesinien, and wiu 3 brnadeast tn minth krade acience students ta : The $ enth-grade program, directed by teachier Bill Evans, included a panel discussion 5 which students directed ques- tions at Dr. Francis N. Cooke, vepresenting the eociety. a Teachers I have talked to agree that although smoking le not a serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu- dents : approaching the : when the problem will be, faced," : Emne said.  1 value a the nimstrips 3 thak I6 gives studenta - Joglcal argument with whleh I eonid refuse a I eneeuraged by etrele et friende," a added the Nim atrip la also being Minn à to senior big achools in the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October 9, 1960
Education
: Fag
Youth Habits
Cuts
-
American cigaret soking can be reduced s cent through - teenage education program a the high ac ols. These statistics were presenled Saturday ly Walter G. James, director of publie educalion for the American Cancer Society, hene for the Florida Division, ACS, annual meeting leenagers as - meane fer - - ancer becsmse a & sAapoe eseviction hat sisoking la a canse * fatal lung 2 proepects of reducing cigaret smoking by onefifth were abosn is . pilol program conducted with 22,000 wn acheol studenta t Purtland, Ore., 1 - a soidenfs I I A akad ne 1 - le e Smoking increased in dhe successive gh school grades. Among boys participhting ls the Oregon aurvey. 2 sad aent smoked as freshmen. 32 per cent as sopbemores, 31.1 per eent a juniers, 3 354 : I A correspond- du figures for girl atodents were 46 per I 1.6 per cent, or the studrnts. s8 cent & boys smoked regwlarly at leanst ence . ! a  : per n af the girls - Education prugrams againat smoking reduced the mmber al a amoker 1 boys from a cent le 7.7 nEr cent, and beginning girl smokens from  PROGRAN EFECTIVE Jamer said the figures projected - four indicaled that 20 per eent P high schook  could - deterred hrom smoking through 8 6 educational progra - A study. he E revealad that ? moat dflactive approach as in *ao a leng term lect a smoking. lesving the decision ta - a Least eflective, he related : the aimg ine 1 Aa part af ib entiemoking edusation a a ACS has devised a Ain strip htr - fects hablt for acreming la 9 achool clasaroo
at the Lage. Mar Hotel I said the - cancer. doe
progs - : directed at
à
apring.
I & aigaret pabit.
142 & cent and 36.2 & gent.
per cenk,
per
.
+ -
: E MULLEK d 10022686
