DAILAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Tezas April 14, 1954
Tobacco Firms Ask
New Cancer Studies NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing growers: and tobacco charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers. tional" statements linkdng smoking Among those quoted by the come and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cauncer Institute of the United States Gov- relationship of ermment, which said a a 1953 cigarettes and health and called port that the cause of for exhaustive research de estab- had not been established. lung Several cancer lish the basic cause of the disease. of the iinstitutels scientists also The tobacco industry research were cited. Others quoted were the Damon booklet co Runyon Fund, which called for taining previously published state more research. and Chicago & ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgooni Dr. Max Cutier, who itles doubting or denying claims said a few sensitive persons by other cancer experts that tobac- develop lung cancer partly because may ot smoking but that to accept the The earliest, whitten le 1923, said conclusion of a direct there were irritants ini tobacco but in all- cases is "unscientitic relationahip none that wouid produce tunnors. hazardous." The most recent. dated last March # smoice in the lungs were a '9t said much more research must sure-fire cause of cancer, we a all be done before causes of lung can- have had it long or any other kind de canoer quoted Dr. Clarence ago," Cook report The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratary, Bar Har- 5 January te combat mounting bor, Maine. charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the up of nearly everymajor eigarette University of Texas School of Medi- manufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Insr-
industry aided picture of the committee issued a co causes lung cancer.
A
apd the
cer can be establisbed.
director of the Roscoe B, Jackson Lttie, ance Company and British anthor Ities, Nearly all those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until an absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report was described by an industry spokesman as E "in- terim" statement, pending ame nouncement of the choice of a prominent scientist to supervise basie cancer research le be b nanced by the industry. That scien- tist will decide how the industry's cancerresearch money le le he spent. No date has been set for his At the Jast count, the committee said; there were more than 8 cancer research grants in the United States alone, "any one of which might produce evidence to unlock the secrets of lung cancer,"
selection.
