True-Fa Iso Questions on the Chenistry and 0A501,sApky Odor end Flevor l. H F Song nodern workers suggest that nocurate mensurement of vibrattona! frequency (in the far Infrared, for example) of hn unknown odorant will pernit prediction of its quallty and intenslty. No elenente substance, not even halldes or ozone hos any odor; Instead they react with the nucoss foraing new products whlch are smellod; but - Sone odorants have sterlc or vibrational propertles which force the concluslon that they are odor less when they are not. 11. TF Present evidence strongly suggests thet different parts of the olfactory receptor ares, IIke the retina In the eye, are quallty-speific. T Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor No one yet has a fir clue as fo the criticol reletion between the molecule and the receptor which permits an odor perception. The greater the secretion rate of sucous or sallve, the higher their pH, end both pHI and temperature influence 3 quallty of sensafion in the 111. H The Ideal Instrumentel detector 2 ld respond to odors in the sane quantitetlve range as does an eninal or human subject. 1 - Such an Idest detector has not been developed. Hann observors with head In fixed position cen by virtue of the two Indopondent nostriis easily discern stereo Sioll effects, 1.e. they can tell whofler aus odoront Is af the right or lefr hand, much : one uses nis two ears In locating the source of a sound. For certal In musk-like compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger a hunon olfactory response V. 1 Adaptation to one olfactory Qunlity does not signlficantly reduce sensirivity to any of her dissiel far quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all similor quellties. - By employing a sinilerities nethod of comparing qualities, one con nowr obtain Idenfity and degroes of difference without rocourse to irohlo- vi. 1 Hunger lovers thresholds slightly to some food quallties but not for Ir s! now possible to Tdentify the Intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull simply by expert examination of the electrophysiologicel record taken from approprlete odor or taste neurons. Electrical stimutotion of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkaliné" quality. Direct electricel stimuletlon of the olfactory senso has nover yet beon successfully eccomplished. VIl. 1 Although total anosala is rare In humans and ageusis even rarer, there is evidence that in analogy to color vision deficiences, sone people are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while hoving nornal sensitivity to others. Toplcal enesthetics applled to the tongue shos that different quelltles Certaln endocrine disease entitles make It possible for sone people quire sensitively to "snell" such "odor less" sutistences as sucrose or sodiun chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to norsal by manipuletion of endocrine levels. Prenenopausal wonen at the Ime of ovulation find certaln odors extrenely disegreeab le while at ofher rInes In the menstrun cycle these same odors
sote elements possess taste.
surface ln order to be snelled,
chemicn senses.
fy.
sone words. others.
of taste disappear a different rates.
they will judge quire pleasent.
oKI
