New York Times March 1, 1963 Page 34
Another Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs to Use It By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pali Mall of Canada, Ltd., the second-larg- est cigarette sompany in that country, contracied yesterday with the Strickmaihoundation 01 pay a penny a *ed royalty for use of the filter iénted by Robert L. Strickman. The company, which : - per cent British-owned, but Canadian-manages, sells 12 bil- lion cigarettes a year, very few of them in the United States. The agreement was the second In two days with tlic founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company, with annual salcs of more tan 18 billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement; that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. Strickman, was surrendering its rights to the filter to the fonndation. The university said # had "made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering a highly cone troversial and competitive com- mercial fieid." Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financlal stake in the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to - last summer by Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set dn on Wednesday by the New Jersey chemist as charitable institution to ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has received $200,000 in advance royalties. According to Robert > Katz, the unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts cauld eventually bring hn about $5 million jyearin rogalties. Mr. Batz, a Jawyer who. E secretary of Seagram's Distil- leries, PIES that Rothman's Pall nfall. of Canada hed been test- ing the. Strickman filter since last August. Wilmat Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman's, said of the device: "We are sntisfied that & nothing exists o - which gives comparclie filtratlon without advensely affectingthe flavor of the cigarette. takes out 'mcre suspect ee ments withia the cuniext of ac- ceptable flavor, we fcel that as cigarette company
3 Clalms Are Disputed The claim thiat the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ing cigarette flavor has bcen a subject of controversy. Among, the most outopoken critics of the filter has been!F Eenator Warren G. Magnuson oWashington, who has con- tenced that its claims have been eatly exaggerated. noyL many governmental; and privale health reports byi experts, have called cigarette tar and hiçotine health hazards, Columbia Hnivysity, in a re- port on the Shjckman filter made public tha Wednesday, avoided making - conclu- So far no United Sat les ciga- rette companies are: beliayed to be close to a contract fos the filter. Experts say that dones- tic companies need not fèar competion 5 this country from the Canadien cigarettes because of a 15-cent import duty on each package. PalMallcigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana- dian concern.
sions.
research.
-
shnuld
