Vol. 285 No. 23
EDITORIALS
1517
The New England Journal of Medicine Official Organ of The Massachusetts Sedical Society Founded la 1812 as the NEv ESGEAND JOUNAL oF MEDICINE AND SURGERN and continued in 1828 as Vol. 1 of the Bostos MEOICAL AND SURGICAL JOUANAL, PUBLISHES WEEKLY BY THE COMNITTEE oN PUBLICATIONS or TS MASSACKUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY Claude E. Welch, M.D., Ghninsan Joseph Carland. M.D., EDIToR EMERITUS Franz J. Ingelfinger. M.D., EDIToR ASROCIATE EDeroas Georyre S. Richardson, M.D., Boos REVIEWS Robert O'Leary, ASSISTANT EDIToR EDITORTAL BOARD
ACTION ON ASBESTOS ASBASTOS workers are unintentional victims of industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary fibrosis, pleural calcification, mesothellomas and lung cancer. Asbestos exposure is now widespread, wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex- posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or ferruginous bodies may be, there le no doubt that electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers ease in the general population at this time, the presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by most chemical and physical means and can float frecly in the atmosphere for prolonged periods. Asbestos diseases have a long latent period, 20 sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos be made now, on the basis of "reasonable probabili- must f rather than after a delay for a precise definition These thoughts are reinforced by the work of
involving not only air
also but
drinking water,
Alexander Marble..D. Samucl Proger, ML.D.
Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al- Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of ashestos-linked dis-
F. Jane Desforges, M.D, Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.
Ronald A. Malt, M.D.
Arnold L. Smith, M.D, years or more. We therefore believe that more
of dose-response relations,
Robert E Johnson, 9 Norman a, Levinsky, M.D. Francis D, Moore, M.D, Charies A. Sanders, M.D, Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D. Ronald A. Arky, M.D Dann L. Farnsworth. M.D.
John w. Lidefield. M.D, Murphy and associates In this fssue of the Journal Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, (p 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved bn Louis Weinstein, M.D. new ship construction include better than John R. David. M.D. exposure data and indicate a high incidence of as- Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. pestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have Brian MacMabon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-
usual
Howard Bleich, M.D.
Isadore * Rosenberg, MD. Siilion C. Paige, 5 BUSINESS MANAGER
tions. A second study of Murphy et al. reports two cases of pleural disease (one mesothelloma) in workers who sanded asbestos floor tiles. Since the
AUTHORS preparing manuscript for submission 1o the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au- na! should consult "Information for Authors. This material thors simulated the working conditions and found may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour- concentrations of 1.3 Gbers per milliliter 'of room nel. or it may be obcained from the Joumal office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of currently CASE REPORTS, usually published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 10 Abers every gence" section, should include only the pertinent detsils and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled cine : covered by copyright, The Jourval docs not hold itself A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation- REPRENTS: The Journal does not stock reprints of the arti- tion of those who are exposed In their occupations. ALTHOLGH all advertising material accepted is expected to biologic effects and the physica! characteristics of SUBSCRIPTION PRICES (worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is le be established with interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates are in U.S. fundsonly, confidence. Although we endorse these recommen- MICRORILSE volumes available o1 regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for through University Microfilms, 31S N. First Street, Ann technical controls based on existing COMXUNICATIONS shouid be addressed to the New Eag- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as- land Journal of Mediçine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects
manuscript, including references, should be syped double used threshold space, and all material, including figures, should be submit- reference to articles reporting closely related cases. A very Rbers remains in the short case report or a description of a technic submicted as a "BRiCr RECORDINC" should be limited to 500 sords. MATERIAL printed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period. responsible for statements made by any contribusor. NOTICES should be received not later than noon on Mon- of day, 24 days befone date of publication. cles published. Requests should be sent to the author. imply endorsement by the Jounnal, Arbor, Michigan 48106. chusetus 02115.
values. limit these lung,
A fber per milliliter of figures suggest that
ted in duplicate.
room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per an alarming number will still accumulate over a OI al Academy of Sciences panel has called for control asbestos emissions at the source and for protec- The report also calls for further rescarch on the
conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance docs not asbestos fbers; such data are
needed urgently "if a knowledge.
on cells and tissues are important and must be con-
