HK82228112
SASTA SAHBARA SANTA P

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIECO
- - : #.* : : a :
7 : a - Va1I 2
MPAKTMI 7 : : 1IN
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willian H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Research roundation
715 Muir Lands Visto Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. Fishman:
ànd Salk.

4 - - : 1 A jv E

-
.
: 5 MIIEVIA 3

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolia rescarch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzyses
should fit in well with ongo ing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnnent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodeyelopmental
prublems is particularly ieely. It will be o! ovat potential importance for
pulling tegetter vork. by a number of laboratories directed touard isolation,
characteriztaion and doterniriation of the sionificance of hurian Oncodevelcpmental
antigens such as alphafotprotein and carcinoxbryonie antigens.
One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship
of increased serusa conçentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinoger
exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and nouse model svstess clearly derion-
strate tne 1 anirals pasocixo to hepatocarcimoyens have clevated serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developrant of sslionant Lucrs. It is hoped that, system? tic
study of hunan scra fruta differeet aources will determing if Serun AFF concun-
In addition, the role of env iromental fac tors such as hormonal influences on
the production of omcodevclolmental gene pr-his can be further explored in
different sy: Lens. Such data iuplies tha! (he prodiu tion of cicocavelopmental
gene products, by tunsor cells is net a fixed property of a given tumor but is
We look fonrard to vorkinn with ycu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundat fon
in furthering research in the important subject of oncodeveloprental gene

tratinns may be used to monitor hepatocarcinones exposure.

Subject to enviromerta controls.

expression.
Best regards,
Stewart Sell, N.D.
Professor
SS/nb