True-ral Iso Questions 8 the Chenistry and ychophyslolosy of Odor end Flevor
1. T - Song nodern workers suggest that nocurate sensurasant of vibrational
frequency (In the far Infrared, for exenple) of an unknown odorant
wili pernir prediction of its quallty and intenslty.
T No elenentel substence. not even ha lIdos or ozone hes eny odor; Instead
they react with the nucoss foraing new products which are smellod; but
T Sone odorants have sterlc or vibratlonal propert Les which force the
cone luslon that they are odor less when they are not.
11. 1 Present evidence strongly suggests thet ai fferent parts of the o! factory
receptor ares, IIke tho retino In the eye, are qua ilty-specific.
T Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor
T No one yet has a Fire clue as fo the criticel relation between the
molecule nnd the receptor which pernits an odor perception.
1 The greater the secretion rate of aucous or sallve, the higher their pH,
and both pHI and tomperature influence the quallty of sensafion in the
111. T The Ideat Instrumentel detector would respond to odors ie the sane
quantitetive range as does an enins or human subject.
7 Such an Ideat detector has not been developed.

sone elements possess taste.

suri face In order to be snelled.

chemica! senses.

*

Hhaan observors with head In fixed position cen by virtue of the two
Indepondent nostrlis easily discern stereo Suo 11 effects, 1.e. they
can rell whofier an odorant Is at the right or lefr hand, much as one
uses nis two ears In locat ing the source of a sound.
- For certaln musk- ike compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to
trigger a hunon olfact ory response
V. - Adaptation to ana olfactory Qunlity does not significant ly reduce
sensirivity to any ofher dissiei far Quality, but does reduce sensi-
tivity to all sinilor qua Iities.
T A By esploying a alnlierities method of comparing qualitles, one can now
obtain ident ity and degrees of difference without rocour se to irohlo-
vi. T Hunger loers thresholds slightly to some food qua Iities but not for
T Ir is now possible to Ident fy the Intensity and quallty of a certain
given stimull siaply by expert examination of the electrophyaiologica
record taken trom approprlate odor or taste neurons.
T Electrical stimulot Ion of taste in ann yields only reports of "sour"
and a "metalllc" or "alkaling quality.
T Direer electricel stimutetion of the olfactory senso has nover yer beon
successfully eccomplished.
vIl. 7 Although total anosala is rare In humans and ageusio even rarer, there
is evidence that In analogy to color vision deficiences, sone people
are Insensit tive to (only certein) quallties whi le having normal
sensitivity to others.
1 Toplcal enesthetics applled to the tongue show that different quellties
1 Certaln endocrine disease entitles make It possible for sonse people
quire sensitively to "snell" such "odor less sutistences as sucrose or
sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor enn be
reduced to nonsal by eanipuletion of endocr Ine levels.
à enenopause wonon at the tIne of ovulation fInd certeln odors extrenely
disegreeabie whlle at ofher rInes In the menstrun cycle these sane odors

sose words.
others.

of taste disappear at different rafes.

they wil Judge quite pleesent.

pM. A