Genetic Epidemjology 5:265-275 (1988)
Estimating Genetic Parameters of Survival Distributions: A Multifactorial Model
Joanne M. Meyer and Lindon J. Eaves
Department of Human Genetics, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond For a number of genetically influenced illnesses. age ofonset is correlated between relatives. in some cases, age of onset also serves as an index of an individual's inherited liabiliry t0 uE Olness. Typically, survival models for age of onset distri- butions do not allour for these effects. We have used the gamma distribution as the basis of a model which specifies genetic variabiliry in age of onset. Specifically, we aliow the hazard frequency parameter of the gamma distribution to be a under various gamma models indicate that age of onset correlations may be strikingly different from correlations in liability. Maximum likelihood estimation procedures were used Uo obtain parameter estimates from simulated data sets and o1 determine whether it is possible to discriminate between gamma processes of different order. The resulus for 1,000 pairs of twins (500 monozygotic and 500 dizygotic) gave parameter estimates that were fairly accurate but that decreased in precision as the order of the gamma process increased. We discuss the effect Chis may have uo inferences made about age of onset. Key words: age of onset correlations. survival models. gamma distribution
monoionic function of an individual l- inherited
9 an illness. liabiliry
ampe
Simulations
INTRODUCTION
Genetic analyses of illnesses and behaviors showing a variable age of onset require a knowledge of the cumulative probability of onset by given ages. Some approachès [Weinberg. 1915; Stromgren, 1938; Risch, 1983) derive this probability from prior age of onset disuributions. Others [Elston, 1973; Heimbuch et al., 1980; Risch, 1983) estimate parameters of a cumulative age of onset distribution from the data. When the data allow its use, the Jatter method le more appealing since specific
Received for publication January 11, 1988; revision accepied Apri22, 1988.
Address reprint request de Joanne Meyer, Department of Human Geneties. Bos 33 Medical College of
Virginis, Richmond, VA 23298. e 1988 AJan R. Liss, Inc.
