58
Peptide Hormones. Growth Factors. and Soma H (ed): Placenta: Bassc Research for Clinscal Applcauon Int. Conf. on Placenta, Tokyo. 1990. Basel. Karger. 1991. pp 105-114 Isolation of a Xenobiotic Metabolizing Cytochrome P-450 (P-450sok) with No Aromatase Activity from Placental Microsomes of Both Cigarette-Smoking and Voshio Osawa. Tadavoshi Higashiyama. Kenji Shimizu' Endocrine Biochemistry Depanment. Medical Foundation of Buffalo Rescarch losutute. Bufalo. N.Y., USA
Placental Proteins
Nonsmoking Mothers Nobutaka Yoshida
COPY
FILE
The presence of different monooxygenase activities has been docu- mented in buman placental microsomes. The predominating cytochrome P- 450, that of androgen aromatase, catalyzes the biosynthesis of estrogens [1). Aromatase P-450 has been the object of numerous studies to determine its mechanism of action and to purify it [2, 3). Gough et a [4) reported the presence of another enzyme system which catalyzes the hydroxylation of xenobiotic substances. It has aiso been reported that a placental cytochrome P-450 is responsible for the hydroxylation of benzola)pyrene via aryl hydro- carbon hydroxylase [5-7). The low content of the responding cytochrome P. 450 in human placenta and instability during purification have made it difficult to isolate any other active P-450 enzyme. As a side benefit gained from our procedure to purify and characterize catalytically active aromatass P-450 'tel we found a fraction from the immunoaffinity chromatograph) which showed a high level of xenobiotic activity with little contaminating aromauase activity. Through the use ofconventional purification procedures, we obuined a xenobiotically active P-450 with no aromatase activity Previous studies on aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity have demon- strated higher leveis of this activity in smokers but not in nonsmokers (8, 16 "Postdoctoral Research Fellows on leave from the Department of Obsteing and
Gynecology. Okayami University Medical Senool. Okayams. Japan.
PUBLICATIONS
028242
