-

NEW, YORK POST, FRIDAY, MAY- "ZI 9661
SOdMHOAMMEN
Aacevanns aues rontiononsiy pbnislrd dlairy Awspper

Anti-smoking skulduggery
Imagine this soenario: A scientist who leading
claims to have discovered that cigarette Scruggs opponents. insists he didn't
smoking poses no danger 8 human uments.
health 5u about to testify on behalf of the enterod Perhaps the
tobaoco industry. Suddenly it's revéaled
same lawyers have bought the re-

not. "buy" any doc-
But unless he has
banking business, it is un-
how are rensonable people to
blower: He also represented former
legal fees in the event Brown &
pay Wigand's legal costs Poo be inter-
and Meanwhile, the anti-tobaccn forces also
timony he had given 9 the Food and
tinely measures and adjusts nicotine lev-
(The FDA hoped to use this
"evidence" to justify regulating tobacco as
when the subject of ethics clear that

that he le secretly receiving a salary from clear liams why Seruggs pmoa provide Wil-
tobacco lawyers. It also emerges that the Moreover, with such substantial "loans.
searcher a house and have co-signed two interpret Williams LAmpes.
car loans for him. In his defense, the 8 This le not the first time Scruggs has
entist insists that, except for the salary, been involved with a subsidized whistle-
Question: How would the media likely Brown & Williamson executive Jeffroy
react? A huge brouhaha to say the Wigand. latter's CBS Newg promised to pay the
The scientist's research, whatever its Wiliamson sued Wigand for hreaching
actual merits, would be buried under a his contract's confidentiality clause dur-
mudslide of derision. The tobacco indus- ing a widely reported appearance on 09.
BS grounds for attempting to buy a wit- CBS lawyers, fearing that the offer to
Now let's change a few details. Say the preted as an inducement 8 break the
scientist 5 a whistlcblower" who asserts contract, initially scotched the
that the tobacco industry is fully aware After the substance of Wigand's segment. charges
that cigarette smoking 5 lethal and has hit the newspapers, his interview was
worked 9 conceal this fact for decades eventually ained.
"loans, rather than working for to- suffered an embarrassment when a for-
There you have the chain of events that Drug Administration (FDA).
actually unfoldod recently in a Louisville, Jerome Rivers, a former manufacturing
Ky., courtroom. Yet the near-silence sur- supervisor for the conglomerate, with-
rounding the incident has been deafen- drèw his claim that Philip Morris rou-
a law firm representing Brown paralegal & Wil- for Critics drug.) incessantly
liamson Tobacco Corp., received a industry ais amoral. portray even the tobacco ita
rewards. $109,000 mortgage and othor financial "erime" consists in selling a though legal
Williams had made internal uct that millions of
corporate documents available to attor- After these shenanigans, Americans it is enjoy.
His benefactor was lawyer Richard some of tobacco's foes would comes do well 'dn to
Scruggs one of the tobacco industry's take a careful look in the mirror.

it's all just a loan.
least.
ness.

would be roundly condemned on ethi- Minutes.

The lawyers providing the
bacco industry, are in fact
the campaign against it.
infsA

mer Philip Morris

be
spearheading

employee recanted tes-

Today, one of the few
run the story on Page One, reported
Merreli 'SUrTA a former
neys suing the tobacco companies.

eis.
to
a
eveTia

prod-