AAA
CELL REGULATION, Vol. 2, 373-381, May 1991
Activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors inhibits cell cycle progression of small cell
lung carcinoma
Carol L. Wiliams and Vanda A. Lennon Departments of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Immunology, and Neurology Mayo Clinic and Foundation Rochester, Minnesnts 55905
model for studying the dysregulation of cell cy- cle progression. This highly metastatic tumor accounts for 25-30% of all lung cancers and causes A 25 000 deaths annually in the United States (Birrer and Minna, 1989). SCLC cells ex- press receptors for several autocrine growth factors. including gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP, homologous to amphibian bombesin) (Cuttitta et al., 1985; Carney et al., 1987), insulin- Nakanishi et al., 1988b), and a transferrin-like molecule (Nakanishi et al., 1988a; Vostrejs et erates different intracellular second messen- gers, which must converge on a common point In addition to receptors for peptide growth factors, some SCLC cell lines express musca- rinic (Sorenson et al., 1983; Cunningham et al., 1985; Williams and Lennon, 1990a) and nicotinio acetylcholine receptors (Maneckjee and Minna, 1990). The ability of acetylcholine receptors to recognized (Conklin et al., 1988; Ashkenazi et al., 1989; Maneckjee and Minna, 1990). Based on our finding that activation of M, muscarinic açetylcholine receptors (mAChR) causes drolysis of phosphoinositides (PI) and inhibits voltage-gated Ca?* channel activity in SCLC cells, we proposed that mAChR activation may affect SCLC proliferation (Williams and Lennon, 1990a). We report here that mAChR activation inhibits DNA svnthesis induced by serum, bom- besin, insulin, or IGF-I in SCLC cells. mAChR agonists arrest SCLC cells in both S and G,/M phases of the cell cycle. mAChR activation ap- pears to disrupt a common event induced by transduction by growth factor receptors MAChA activation decreases DNA synthesis Carbachol decreases H-thymidine uptake by cells cultured in serum (Figure 1). This inhibition
We prevloush reported that activation of musca- rinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChR of M, subtype hydrolysis of phosphoinositides and inhibits voltage-gated 3 channel activity in small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) cells. We now report that mAChR to arrest le S and G,/M phases of the cell cycle, concomitant with a decrease in DNA synthesis. Cell cycle progression and DNA synthesis resume when mAChR are down-regulated In serum-starved SCLCcelis. mAChR activation inhibits DNA synthe- sis induced by serum, bombesin insulin, or insulin- like growth factor-l. The finding that DNA synthesis le inhibited even when mAChR are activated after exposure of cells to growth factors indicates that signal transduction by growth factor re- ceptors le not the mechanism of mAChR-mediated growth inhibition, Our data suggest that mAChR activation disrupts a common event that le induced by different growth factors and ls fundamental for in normal cells, the transition from proliferation to terminal differentiation is marked by with- drawal from the cell cycle and an inability to reenter the cycle in response to growth factors. Transformed cells do not undergo this transi- tion, but constitutively remain in the cell cycle; rupted (Heldin and Westermark, 1984; Wein- stein, 1987; Kraus et al., 1988). Small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) provides a clinically relevant Abbreviations: GRP, gastrin-releesing peptide; ICse haM. factor-l; mAChR. muscarinic acetylcholine receptors; PBS, phosphate -buffered saline: PI, phosphoinositides: SCLC, e 1991 by The American Society for Cell Biology
like growth factor-I
et al., 1988;
causes
(IGF-1)(Macauly
activation couses exponentially growing SCLC cells al., 1988). Activation of these receptors gen-
to induce SCLC proliferation.
cell has been regulate proliferation recently hy-
decreased cell cycle progression. Introduction
the regulation of cell cycle progression is dis- different growth factors, which follows signal
Resuits
maximal inhibitory concentration; IGF-1, insulin-like growth by cells growing exponentially in serum
smaill cell lung carcinoma.
373
