SYMPTOMS AND THE NKIAINOHIANKOUDIA IN THE SICK BUTLDING INOHGINAS A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., CI.H. complains associared with the "sick building syndrome Ar same aime. themiro-emvironmen (envirormental
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT che
et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire The sympioms were more common le bild-
In a cros-sectional investgarion 5 & building. office buildings built over the last 9 years with a validased were measured on a lincar analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and characieristics 5 the breaching zone racher dhen anes direct relationship between the level of complaints & air samyples) E characierized by measuring empenenere, quality parameter : not described. Skov et a (1967) à relacive hamidiry, respirable suspended, "ppopd ar amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern 1 bon dioxide, noise level, lighaing iniensiry, nelaciwe har tom halls and - older control buildings. A level of 1 midiry, and airflow. No relarionship E seen berween tors was related & a "feecing" factor (carpets, upholsery. dhe degree of symptoms and age. educarion. or dunstion and horizontal surfaces) ad the "macro-moleculer I of employmen at the building or aime spent s phe 1 nent" of dust. They aiso demonstrated a relationship berween S on a daily basis. Starissically, complaint MnE the oumber of hours spent photocopying and using carbonless significandy more freguent among smoking $ Eavi- Adoo paper and the level of complaints. Other srudies have rommental characieristics associased $ de incroased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985) complain levels in ahis group included decressed airflow and prychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) cootribute models, chere was an association hetween respinable a- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome by mea- pended particulates and the levels of bock MCONE me- suring symptoms and enviroamental exposures. Robertson et brane and syssemic complaints. Sarisfaction wisk a P (1965) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. chermal exvironment B prediced by percepcion of dngft ferences ls the concentrations of eovironmental pollutants & nOE clearly coneribuse to che degree of symypioms, berween rooms in a mechanically and a naturally veutileted alhough regression models did sggest 2 comyplaines building. They srudied the rooms with the f complaint MnE nOf independent of chermal parameers. - I I and used area samples. Skov et a (1967) did demoo- inaensiry MES also associated 5. complaints. I strate a relationship between symproms and both area I mudies of % sick building syndrome I cxamine ples measuring dust and a "macro-molecular fraction. f
humidification, irespective of the
:
ae of the buildings. A
velociry and increased kevels of respirable suspended par- 9 indoor air quality complaints.
aicalares 7 dry-bulb empenanre. In regression
Several studies have attempred to identify the actual
1 exposres simultancously and inchude prycho- la area I
I measres a idenaify predictors of complaints in
Area samples is buildings may not be representative of & exposuret le different points in single rooms. Physical charscteristics such a windows and partitions, computers, and shelving may influence air currents. Radians E may
indoor spaces. INTRODCTION
Complaints sermed the € building yndrome" have lead 01 uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally. mos pol- led to oumerous iavestigations lg the last 15 years. E are hutants resukt from point sources, e they will be diluted a a thought to occur primarily le newly constructed a # subject a farther removed from the source. The micro A E and, at least in the past, were thought to be due e vironment around desks and within cubicies may have very inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelca. a different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroe # variery of causes have been identifed le specific settings. ment of a building la addition. all applied occupational and including inadeguate emperarure and relacive bumidiry 8 enviroamental health rescarch that attempes 01 relate dose to trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile ossanic compounds bealth eflects sufliers from the problem that dose is generally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, eaviroamental sobecco measured at several poiats in time 3 then extrapolated to - smoke, pesticides,  entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decades spent and contaminated air and boiler fumes, fibers rekeased * most healh eflects are messured as . 1 1 of from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Wibere the variability of sampling A group of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of sympsoms Aeus change not merely trom et al. 1964) suppested that these complaints were relased pri- day to day but from hour 1o hour, such a strategy must fail. (Robertson et al. 1985) : unable o identify diflerences in attempred to characterire air-quality parameten in the 8 wer-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb emperarure (semper eavironment and set these characteristics in relation o a ature). relative humidity. air velocity. formaidehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at a piven point in I This itive or negative ions between several rooms le a building report preseats results of a cros-sectional investigation of a with narural and - building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using a se"administered. lincar analog. where both sets of rooms had high leveis of complaints. Burge sel-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom E I . Assistant Professor of Medigine and ol lndstrial 3 Emviroamental Heakth Sciences at the Univerty of Fieburgh Schools of Medicine and Publc Heahh. P. Celepy s Director. Environmestal Heahth & Salery. Camepie-Melion Univerty. Pirsburgh. PA.
(Kreiss and Hodpson 1964; Hodgson and Kreiss (9061 marily to mechanical ventilation. The same group of authors
results la greater than the difference la average samples, and No investigations in 8 peer-reviewed litersture I
