BOULDER DATLY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
- a a
Area stores
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For tha Delly Camera nors. kids. ku,
refercing to the Increased enforce- penally lor selling tobaccoon ml- tried 3 buy the cigarelles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky OFqBnous nesses this week during a craçk. getcaught were. issued. asummons- down on selling cigarettes to m to appoar 5 court. 1 Tho moximum The sting. conducted on the eve horis DOZS.R Tine. of- the American Cancer Soclety's The tuing involved two toams. Great American Smokeout. was in- Fach included a uniformed 'offcer. tended to educate clerks that ir's il- a piain ciothes acer. and two legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High Schoo girts, Who Police. targeted gas stations, son: giris' parenis signed a waiver al. vênience, drug, grocery and dic lowing themto Take partin thc.op: Tay tas Mever teeri enforced, said The juveniles wero told not to Jopinog Policc Oficer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "We're letting the stores know had to show identification.
court Btores. Unui recently, the eration. this is going to happen, ahc sald,
the cigarettes. and, if asked, they (Sce BOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores *
-- :
for
sales
cigarette (From Page (OT
to minors The clerk af Colony Market,.
At the Conoco station, 8000 2620 Broadway, pegan to. cry 284h Sh, one of the giris asked when she was Asued sum, the cashiar for a pack of Mart mons, oys Galg a wzs a btuss e boro Lights., Oficer Rob Hauke- dent and couldn't ROEe tng ness, In plain clothes, stood in bourt bosts. HAlkeness poû 9 iine-hehind her to witness thç 0n8018 hor, saying she couly A placard near the cash regis- the Distriet Attormey to do sam 2. ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice instradof paying No 'ai No Sale, No Way." The the fine, clerk asked to see some identif- The clerks, not the store The buyer produçed her ers or manugers, have to pay the. driver's lcense, which showed court costs. sha WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'L do lt to cd at the license, act it down on stores or clerks, she said. punish and sold her the though, when you pee clerks After they left, Haukeness Roulder Police targeted 15- stepped da and identified him aloros and clen *s AMLbur four sell as a police officer. Manka received summonses. came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wook's I see them ask for an year. Tha finst sting, conducted. E I think they're going to à in Scptember, targeted 16 stores fuse the cale," Haukeness sald. and 97 clerks received Rum:
transaction. cation counter. the cigarettes. summons "When "But they never do."
prubably work out a deal-with
: owner "Al-:
ing, you might think otherwise. crys operation was the. punsss tobacco. sale sting Fhis:
monses.
