AME
PKV

vul 1S N41 13 rp2721-2725

Carclnogenels

n661

Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke
carcinogens auputingr-OAPHd-D-rCwusso.ngyrsypsw)-y and
benzola)pyrene: a potentially usefu! model for evaluation of

< 4.20

chemopreventive agents

Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin
Amencan Health Foundation. Valhalla, NY 10595. USA

models examined 9 date (2). BaP is a protorype of the class
of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco
smoke (1). We have chosen the A/1 mouse because previous

The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce
model for the evaluntion of chemepreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced
lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction in Aj mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to
by A-mehylaitroamino- OpridylD-l-bulamons (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined
and benzofalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated.
individually Or in combination. Groups of Cemale A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg
were treated by either intragastric gavage (i-g-) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of
intraperitoneal injection (l.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP,
and/or Bap for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and7,12-dimethylbenzldlanthracene (9,10).
either 6 or 61 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse o1 evaluate the effects of
forestomach were counted. The S1 route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK
proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration. (4.11.12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse can be replicnted
because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other mode! systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate
thelnjection site and associated mortality, A dose e-response (PEITC) le an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by
relationship for lung tumor induction by ig. administration NNK uE both the A/J mouse and F344 rat (11.13)
mice killed 9 or 10 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single
treatment. The hihest total doses OfNNK and BaP le total carcinogens This may not 3 realistic with respect 01 tobacco
of24 jmol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke. which contains at least 40 carcinogens (I), The
have been espeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important
Comparisons of NNK and BaP given individuatly showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (17.
when given by the ig. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either
wcre complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP.
The most favorahle dosing reginien of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to
evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the muttiple dosing which occurs during
dose of 24 pmol of cach, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the mode! should be relatively rapid and
subdoses i-g-, with sacrifice 6 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we examined tumor yields obtained
dosing. This regimen induced 10.5:4.4 lung adenomas upon treatment with NNK and BaP. given simultaneously for
mouse. > combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61
ethylisothiocyanate given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This fumor model was employed in a
and BaP, E found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzy! isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC
tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP
this study proside a convenlent model for assessing the NNS was synthesized in the Americas Heali Foundacion Organic Synthesis
efficacy of chemopreyentive agents against lung cancer Faeility. Ats purity was establihed by HPLC as >997 BaP (93% purity),
Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Farility (4). They were
could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dint containing s4 com oil, as previously
play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups cf 1S as sammarized in Table 1. At age 7 weeks. each mouse wias
kers: matlylaimoaminonlo-IOpndD-lbiumons (NNK*) treated à intraperitoneal (ip) injection or by intragastric gavage lis) with
and benzofajpyrene (BaP) (1) NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriane chemical in 0. ml cononseed aa. NNK and BaP were both
carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung ie all rodent dissolved in the 0.I ml used for treatment Injections and gavages were carried
*Abbreslations: NNK. 4-mathylmivosmiao) -(3-pyriayt 1-butunone individuat dose was ene-cighth of the potal. Equimolar doses af NNK ad -
aaP, benzolejpyrens: PEITC, pheneihy! iscthiocyanaic BITC. benzy! BaP were wsed le mast of the combination groups, bacause the amounts of

which these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given

The A/I mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively

of NNK and BaP up combination was established in the
that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK

Most previous studies in the A/) mouse have examined

We sought 9 develop a model which could be used to

5.9: 5.7 lung aderomas/mouss 5 V 0.001) and completely
induction by tobacco smoke carcinogens.

inbibiting forcstomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods

BITC 86) purity) and PEITC <9356 purity) were abtained from the Aldrich
Chemical Cempany (Milwaukee. WI. Cottonseed oll was purchased from
Female A) mice. age S weeks. were obeained from The Jackson Kaovcrogen
(Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the
The desiga ef the bioassay is illustrated B Figure 1. The mice were
out for & consecutive werks. The toral doses ae given s Tuble L Fach
NNK and toral earcinogenic polyoyelic hydrocarbons in sebaceo smake are

Sigma Chemlcal Co. (Si Loais. MOY.

Introduction
s,

agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).

divided

isoihiocyansie, ip Intriperitongal, is, introgasrie gavage.

o Oford Unvenity Press

2721