STRICKMANFILTER WINS 2D CONTRACT Another Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs to Uselt By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pall Mall of Canada, "PrT the second-larg est cigarette sompany in that country, contracud yesterday with the Strickmaicoundation to pay a penny a pack royalty for use of the filter inénted by Robert T Strickman. The company, which e sq per cent British-owned. but Canadian-managed, sells 12 bil- lion cigarettes a year, very few of them in the United States. The agreement was the second In two days with the founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company. with annual salcs of more than 8! billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. Strickman, was surrendering its rights to the filter to the fonndation. The university said * had "made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering a highly con- troversial end competitive com- mercial ficid. . Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financlal stake in the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to it last sunmer by Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set dn on Wednesday by the New Jersey chemist as a charitable institution 01. ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has received $200,000 in advance royalties. According to Robert > Katz, the unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts cauld eventually bring hn about $5 million a yearin rogalties. Mr. Batz, A Jawyer who. Is secretary of Seagram's Distil- leries, said that Rothman's Pall nfall of Canada had been test- ing the. Strickman filtor since last August. Wilmat Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman's s said of the device: a *We are sntisfied that nothing exists o y which gives comparcl'e diltration without advereey affecting the flavor of the cigarette. 3 takes out 'mcre padsrs e'o- ments withia te cuniext of ac ceptabla flavor, we fcel that as cigarette compiny shnuld trv -
New York Times March 1, 1963 Page 34
-
A
- Clalms Are Disputed The claim thiat the filter can remove a significant zmount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ing cigarette flavor has bcen la subject of controversy. Among the most outspoken critics of the filter has beeniF cnator Warren G. Magnuson o/ Washington, who has con- tenced that its claims have been &catly exaggerated. &noyL, many governmental. and grivale health reports byi. experls, habe called cigarette tar and hiçotie health hazards, Columbia Wnivysity, in a re- port on thè Shyckman filter made public an Wednesday, avoided making ay conclu- So far no United Shates ciga- rette companies are belicyed 01 be close to a contract fx the filter. Experts say that dones- tic companies need not fèar competion in this country from the Canadien cigarettes because of a 15-cent import duty on each package. Pall Mall cigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana- dian concern.
sions.
research.
-
