496
- 234
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richard L. Nacye, MD, and Woodrow S. may vary in incidence and Somerset Counties of central pneumoconiosis were asined enthracite roal. Surveys con-
Findings Dellinger, MS rank, low-volatile cos! in Cambrin and ryivanla. Pean- Nonc of the men hnd ever cucted between 190 and 19-i5 ly the Pennaylvanin Dparimvat of Miner : Minrral Industries skured ar; a verage coal dunt exposure per werk- iny Mhift of 11,1UUEN eale font ol air fur biturrineas parisles per wark- silica cuntent of cval d. awt in low L all arenn ef s nekdons helny greater Penneyha- iban $.. However, the mine durt eheentra- L: 1 of freg silica In greater far sonte u ideryround wurkets puch as Fsf sillvaheariag 4 The 17 cases palverin rand, selerted ME le ltid huthera, risifed Kalagne dks ly eAch of Py en pirpnre B mpral huspital, and read of man yrara Age  aid parumorminsis. da twrevn 1960 aarl I:his. le to determine if par- fes rases atarted with The Aatvh the patisat descriptiuns of thy lungs. Wh was ans mention of 6 sive pi,ment, parenchymal nadul, * p- er any hlatury of minins. the dine ti. nt's clinical chart was 1n- esan.innd, dati were evir.dte A EV M aS inrludul in the study unly espaagr 2 A In specii maines 3 1-n gnrille risive wasnhtained. ninun'. - Pys ocmninss Nin % & Delle, a 223 027050
Coal workers pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one pationt to another, In found to correlate well with quantitative. measurements of (1) the volume of nodules, and (2) the silica macules and nodules. Unfertunately, reçognition of emphysemo and chronis appear to be most closcly correlated with miners with no roentgenographic emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspnea in with silica and collagen, rom 10 to 4G of Appuluchian chitis and coal workers have roentgeno lur, graphie evidener of symptoms, and physical findinge laare bern difinalt to make, workens pneummeeniosis ("black lung" is not but a composite uf multiple dinorders, and severity, dupendent gruphic aren, exurt occupatiunal à posure, and opgarent individual suN- eeptibility.' These nultiple dis Fem thy lgann ne - Pw-ss. 38 dun a Lniserity Culle 3 4 * dnis Mrlry Krpnn 1 : M4 1. a a Bval nerlg Cvakef, Hesaus. 2 uu die I JAMA, April 10, 1972 . Vol 220, Nn 2
process but a a study of 77 miners of postmortem anatoric pulmonary dust macules and content collagen of dust there v:as poor roentgenepiaphie cor pulnonale, lla tnu disdeciers A évidence of pneumosoniosis had addition lo dust macules
bituminous
coal, roentgenographic categories for
(silicon dioxide) )and
which
dyspnea number of en,* Th free
hronchidlitis:(s) crntriluhu- h iers and eledrie Ine panlolular, and paraciciticial a ara who drill into ontive ojct to make diregve pesus 11. ngh a search af influences n the fuentyen- a ber than a workers witlnst aurictedl Tir a ee almormalities Patients Studiod and Methods frun l'enray hania anel Weal Vir
meconlosia, lut E relatiuns helween pncu- emphysema: und (3) tuhrrulusin and nk or encountir
such roentgenugrplic cabnormalities. onusionally othr di :-4 prekases, early stagges." Theae epecinlly in tions to disability." l is the
These srprate appear ographie festurvs of sone upon Ro enigenographic
diferiag: wita ilu-
whn
dificulties prok- of the current a single disense pron eaN Another ain
ably arie from the fact that roal individoal stly tn evaluate tlicir by y protorul thnt lavohes erery a Au-
cach of which nay vary in inridence moconivnis with diabilits : in Rirts
ordes indudelllthe primary enl alust Hutirntw,- T'he palints Wwe - un ar - informatinn Hinhvy Sledical e nist, Pwanhanis Siale lewrank hich-vulail- ca! in pnties Rr ainel
maculu; (2) silivuriss (a) chrumic lnn- dergruun! miners af hituminuus gnal li an uthr meerning npa-
ginia, of sthueatoyn
Thir:g-ane had ulwaya minei nf tvupatinnsl I'mns sIvania or in tu! Mirassed ly a Fe narhn 1.. Vir,itia Tlr A "sail hll
ether a; hanl alvayr mine d highrr in ematinn Mglanti ti 1- N in:
PUBLICATIONS
10346287
