- ? Dis Val. 38. No 1.pp. 17-26. 1985
Priased de Great Britain IV rights reserved

0021-9681 8553.00- 000
Copyrighe C 1985 Pergamon Press Lid

PSYCHOSOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ADOLESCENT
SMOKERS BFFORE THEY STARTED SMOKING:
EVIDENCE OF SELF-SELECTION
A PROSPECTIVE STUDY
CARL C. SELTZER and FRANK W. OECHSLI
Peabody Muscum. Harvard Liniversits Cambridge. MA 02138 and the Child Health and
Developmeat Studics, Schooll of Public Hcaltn, University of California. Berkekey.

CA 94720, U.S.A.
(Recrinnd in rised fore 17 dayust 1984)

Abstract- -Evidence of noncomparabilits of self-formed smoker and nonsmoker groups of
adolescents feom the Child Health and Development Studies of the University of Califomia.
Berkeley. was found in a study of antecedent psychosocial characteristics (observed at age 101
before the adoption ofthe smoking habit. With possible confounding factors controlled, eventual
smokers showed significantly greater prevalence than nonsmokers of Type A personality traits.
eutraversion: psychoticism, anger. and nestless sleep Eventual smokers were lower in socio-
economic status than nonsmokers. and also eshibited significantly lower mean scores for the
Raven Progressive Matrices and Peabody Picture Vocabulary tesis. For cach trait. the trends of
the data were consistent 1e boys and giris Since many of these traits are shown 01 4 into
adult life where they are then rdated to coronary heart disease. the role of sdf-sckection requires
further consideration in causal inferences about smoking and coronary heart discase

INTRODLCTION

IN RECENT years, many oublished studies have shown an association that suggests a role
for psychosocial factors in the pathogenesis of CHD (1.2). In the Framingham Study.
univariate and multivariate analyses showed a positive relationship of certain psycho-
social factors 01 CHD and also 01 cigurette smoking (3-5). The pervasive question of
temporal precedence and a priori self-sclection still requires further clarification. however.
in the absence of controlled experiments. the effects of cigarette smoking on health have
been inferred from observational studies that compare persons who smoke with
nonsmokers. In these comparisons. the disease outcomes are assumed to occur in cohorts
of smokers and nonsmokers who were initially similar in all relevant characteristics except
for the difference in smoking habit. Very little evidence has heen available. however. to
The unique data of the Child Health and Development Studies (CHDS) of the
University of Califomia. Berkeley. provide an opportunity to check this assumption by
examining antecedent characteristics associated with teenage smoking [6-8]. The CHDS
is a prospective investigation of children from birth to late adolescence At various stages
of their development, the children were examined as to their biological, social. and
In this report. we have analyzed the antecedent psychosocial characteristics of a large
cohort of boys and girls before some of them later began cigarette smoking as teenagers
Reprint requests should be addressed to: Frank w. Olechsli. Child Health and Deselopment Studies,
This project was supported by Grant E from the Peahody Muscum. Harsard L'niversity

verify this assumption

personality status, as well as environmental and familial influences

2131 University Ave.. Berkeles, CA 94704, U.SA.

8 38/- -

17