WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRIBUNE
D. 25,605
S. 49,326
WACO METROPOUITAN AREA
HARI 9 1963

FC Opersteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard-- Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission frons going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it
does not scem right or logical that ono medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer W hile
newspapers, magazines, billboards and e ounte CT
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expected do review the FCC propnsal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC sald it is proposing to refuse Jicenses
01 broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising
becauso of evidence that smoking is injuriour S hcalth
and thc FCC has an obligation le protect the public
interest. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bipger than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals 0) do
as they please so long as they doa't harm another.
It also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that if nok don't mention somefhing. maybe de won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democrat, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com-
merce Commitice, snid in reference le the proposed
FCC rule that the ngancy had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. He said he douits that FCC has
any righit to tell an advertiser what he could not
say in Jis advertisements. Rogers sald Congress will
take a close Icok: at the whole question o! regulutions
on television and radio advortising content, nol only
as to the Federal Communications Commission but
in regard to Tederal Trade Commission praclices as
The stakes invalved estend beyond the business
of brondcasling. They 08 to the heart of whether
government burcaus should he allowed to go beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Health.

hurt you and wi)l disappcar.

well.
3

tho limits of dus proccss and thc law.