DAILAS MORNING NEWS
Dallas, Tezas
April 14, 1954

Tobacco Firms Ask
New Cancer Studies
NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing growers and tobacco
Industry chargod Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers.
tional" statements linkdng smoking Among those quoted by the com-
and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer
alded picture of the relationship af Institute of the United States Gov-
cigarettes and bealth and called ernment, port that the which said in a 1953 re-
research to estab- not been established. Severnl
lish the basic cause of the disease. ot the institutels scientists aiso
The tobacco industry research were cited.
committee issued a bookdet con- Runyon Others quoted were the Damon
previously published state more research, and
ments by thirty-six cancer authior- cer Surgeon Dr. Max Chicsgo Can- who
itles doubting or denying claims said a few sensitive persons Cutier, may
by other cancer experts that tobac- deveiop lung cancer partly because
The earliest, whitten in 1923, said conclusion of a direct relationahip
there were irritants in tobacco but in al! cases is "unscientitic apd
none that wouid produce turnors. hazardous."
The most recent; dated last March It smoke in the lungs were a
16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of
be done before causes of Iung can- have had it long ago," cancer, the
cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report Littie,
The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratory, Bar Har-
5 January te combat mounting bor, Maine.
charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the
up of nearly every major eigarette University of Texas School of Medi-
nanufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Inar

for exhaustive
taining

had

cause of lung cancer
Fund, which called for
ot smoking but that to accept the

8 causes tung cancer.

we'd all

can be establisbed

director of the Roscoe B, Jackson
ance Company and British author-
itles. Neariy all those quoted
agreed that no conclusions çould be
reached until 5 absolute cause for
lung cancer has been established
The report was described by an
industry spokesman as an "in-
terim" statement, pending ane
nouncement of the choice of &
prominent scientist to supervise
basie cancer research to be f-
nanced by the industry. That scien-
tist will decide how the industry's
cancer-research money is to be
spent. No date has been set for his
At the Jast count, the committee
said; there were more than 850
cancer United research grants 5 the
States alone, "any one of
which might produce evidence to
unlock the secrets of lung cancer,

selection.

-