LOS ANPIES TIES Los Angeles, Californio October 20, 1954 E been proved, Sale 'niversity
hairl upon the premise that hinatinn n' a partirular tvpe nectinn hetween riea in each nf the three categaries smoking an disease ha: has alrcady produced a safe Might Take Six Months one : is. so all can be made Dr. 3 Cuyler Hammond that way, = not, the research who ssas in charge ol the most Dr. Clarence Caok Titte complete statistical study to chairman of the scientific ar- date. said tba: "some say S4e sisnre bnard and seient'fic di should wait for more defini rector a the Toiarro Indas. ing a safe cigarette, bus no ies which he helieves wnulrt nne has said just what the de prndure snme nf he defni- finitive ejdence weud be." live evidenpe tn waich Dr : said he "took issue" with Hammond referred. In n salk 1n the Ameriran "We wiil tackle ssstem was more importans, line of the
Calls Safe Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link is Overwhelming
cigarette 0s1 seientific re- search should prove which should find "since one, peo- ple like to smoke cigarettes. trs Research Committee de seribed the outlines ni stud- Tackle Unknewns research industry's program "We seek definitive
Expert for
atatistician
tive evidence before develop-
NEW YORK Ort. 61 (ILP) this iewnoint
The rvidence connecting cig- Cancer Snciets meeting. Dr eously mans o! the unknowns simultan arette smoking with b a - h Hammond sair the relation- in this field of tobaccn nse in lung cancer and heirt dis- ship n! rigarette smoking to relation to human health, he case is "overw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the ous- once abour developing "a safe health. than the relationship findings in an area where cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer. 1 program to much suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find a safe eigarette from heen done. The program nf Tobacco Industry Research inhacen, there are varinus relationship hetween rrv rin- Cummittee annnunced some of types 2. fiters, and these are menral factors, inclad E a the details nf Ets seientifie re varinus terhn'ques n! curing The most
something should be done at from the standpoint ol public
the viewpoint of the heart the bnard reongnizes tha: we prnve surcessful in *ix dn not have todav the experi months, rirh luck." he said mental evidencr that wil per- is tobaren, he sair. and ie may zet was important prnsert
meeting cf the American might Cancer Society today. At the same time the scien- Cihe advisory board of the srarch prngram * h
Outlines Deseribed are There various types ol he thar same fortuitans rm- up LaS ANGFIES EXAMINER los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
mit scientific conclsyons PA garding the raure anri rFers sninkine and lune cancer a direes xudv nf eurrent lung cancer rases a 10 medical centers in lie : nt ed States and Canada.
It will inelude numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokers. as well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. The apecifie research grants, financed Aq the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY NO TOBACCO NKW YORK. Oct. 19. - A broad sbe-point study seek ing lnowledge whether eigarets or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards was announced today. It is the first announçement of a big research prokram headed Aq the selentifie ad. visory board & the Tobacco In dustry Researeh Committee
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
