CORESTA 1982 SYMPOSIUM ABSTRACT FORM
AUTHOR(s) (indicate presenting author):
J. G. Nepomuceno (presenting). A. G. Kallianos, J. E. Wickham and A. E. Stagg Philip Morris Research Center. P. 0. Box 26583, Richmond, Virginia, 23261 TITLE OF PAPER: REFINEMENTS TO THE FTC PROCEDURE FOR THE BAIIVITINVNO
AFFILIATION AND ADDRESS
DETERMINATION OF TPM NI CIGARETTE SMOKE
STUDY GROUP: ABSTRACT TEXT: the for
A lightweight and disposable filter holder assembly used in the collection of total particulate matter in cigarette smoke was developed as a currently used Lucite filter holder, Not only are these new holders lighter in weight 15 grams versus 27 grams for the Lucite holder) but the inconvenient and time-consuming steps of washing these holders in an alcohol ba th and drying prior to subsequent use are also eliminated. During the development of these holders, it was noted that certain types of materials, including Lucite, were very sensitive to changes in the moisture content of the environment resulting in highly variable TPM results. These variations become most significant for extremely low yield cigarettes where negative TPM deliveries have been frequently encountered during the analysis. A negative TPM result indicates a loss of weight of the filter assembly the smoking procedure. These negative numbers have been obtained even when during the filter pads were clearly stained by the smoke particulate phase indicating that something was collected during the smoking process. Therefore, the apparently negative TPM deliveries must be a result of an artifact in the smoke particulate ma tter collection procedure. Exper rimental data are presented showing tha t the observed artifact is primarily due to some phenomenon occurring at the surface of the filter holder during, but extraneous to, the particulate ma tter collection process. This phenomenon is shown to be attributable to the inherent property of certain ma terials, including Lucite, to easily adsorb In order to minimize the observed bias in the TPM results and thus allow for the collection of more meaningful data, a lightweight and disposable holder made out of polypropylene and polystyrene was developed. In addition to the obvious advantages of being lightweight and disposable, experimental evidence delivery levels is eliminated through the use of these holders because of their inherent insensitivity to moisture fluctua ations in the environment.
replacement
and desorb moisture from the environment:
was presented showing that a negative bias which becomes
at low
TPM
significant
.Uu
19
rs -
*
