a -
- - a - Cigarettes > a -  * E Pot - - : - i Interestin Av - ZONE TOBACCO company NEW YORK (AB - Ciga- * Zolfiçial noted that the staft rette manufacture Tuesday - recommendation was say chey have - in réport marijuana for per- diversifying to pp mari- legalize 28 of  over age juana, despite - report suoEh years market of the National, Commission while the. biggest Causes Prevention might be a lower age brack- on the a4 RAKNS  d Violence ich Zrecom- et. & Mary Jane sort R) goes mends legalizalos "pot" the youngsters, Com- for adults. qua Sam Fouts, advertis- "No, no noino, Do a has Suy vmented manager for Larus Bros. been a rumor 7o; Pn: lASt E & Co., % Ricbmond, Va. years and & Kive E cadse 'Mary Jane le an old nick- 03 check - & - horoughly pame for marijuana but -uag There is no eproach to B erally has fallen Into disuse industry. among the young.  : William Kloepte & the To : Fouts, noting that mari- juana 6, "still a rather taboo in the cigarette à month fopie" emphasized that his goes by thafsone segmént of, A dustry, "wouldn't touch it
Makers - Claim
anywhere, bacco Institute, lared. 1634 343HL SN th e Bnderground gress doesn't catry - story about et all" how tobacoo companies are gearing  for the arijuana trade, dded: James Bolling. vice president and assistant chairman . * Philip Morris, - d - H PIES that while this type of speculation was under- aigepues nee tobacco com- panjes aré publicly beld and under strict government con trol; no one can even rémote- by ecome lnyolved becausé at the present dime, mari- juana is ilegal.  * 1 There have been persistent stories that 'tobacco com- panies already have regis- te re d as possible brand names Érademarks that in- clude some of the current ve- a a e ula 1 associated with marijuana, and that 'they have been buying up huge tracts ol land in Mexico on which to harvest marljuana. - TRFUN A "WE'RE NOT filing for trademark names like Aca- pulco Gold" or buying land south of the border CQEBn mented. J4kr a - W * $ - a : - .  - -
company
Ine,
1002615950
