(.

du//s

IT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Ne York Timer Serviey

wan bought 5.1 billion American- Amckican cigaretie promotioo about 80 New Taiwan dollars A

made cigarettes last ysar, ringing became E issue even in receat

(S2.86) compared with 22
panies E advertise on TV after

TAIPEI The Murlboro coW up salcs of $119 million. ln 1986, trade talks between the United L Taiwan dollars (79 cents)for A
boy in his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Suatcs and Taiwan Wang Chicn- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghing from his mouth, has come N9 eign cigarettes Dow hold nearly iB shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis
sown. His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered * ing bs Japan are more liberal. Com-
guitar-playing. jeans-clad promor- Indeed, Asian sales accounted give out  cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign Television
This frenetic, fast-growing 0A- cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawod in the United Suates in 1971.
tion of nearly 20 million pcopie ly because both Taisan and Japan school students - 12, ycars old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
amoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-siandiog restrictions. are now smoking How can € ana Taiwan must carry a labcl that,
rubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta ol like that? Id's O.K. to have cigareties them sake of health, doa't smoke to0
Made is America, not Taiwan. m American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- mucb" - a warning much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year, re joy a $16 billion trade surplus with tban the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan. American man- sulting in si billion in new sales. the United States. But those people mandaied in the United Siates.
Wacturers have essentially intro- lo Japan, which has . population' are juat like robbers. I you are * Tbe companies say Amenican
duced cigarette advertising to the of 120 million and where people 'uru . human being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling wellin Taiwan

and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.

ous this city, next to posters ol a peroent.
er of Winston cigarettes.

"They to amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

for most of the growth in American B said recently. "Many scbool- advertising of cigarettes was out-

year and for the first time, E According to the Brown & Wu- rette companica promote

roughly translated. says, "For the

iland, And tbat has created a furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year that.
Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled
ing teen-agers Ne uake da smoking. more than 00 perceat last
operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992.
.pressure from Washingion. In the alcobol.
8 ciparettes WETE dropped. sales said Jaw Shzu-kong a
sfacturens at : time when sales in and
the Unitod Suates are way down
laws is
way up.
According the U.S.
01

nos Bo much beczuse of the adver-
manufactur- tising as because they are of better
thing wtong with the way they are cigaretier are made of blended to
bacco and have less tar than Tai-
products and thes say wancse cigarettos which are not

Amcrican
cigarette
year,
their

tbe American
botly deny.

the past year. The market share &5
frons 3 percent 5 1986, and the promoting

companics of entic- American digarettes increased 8 E vigorously deny there a any- quabty and taste better. American

a charge the American companies
tised, altbough it does now.

Department of Agriculture pro- thry have no pians to change
American pressure 9 open their have they pusbed todo 30, they s4y,

blended.

The sorerameladminivers dicts that it could grow to 15 8. 20 sales pitch.

They are not alovved to advertise
l5 small storea where cigarettes are
tions Cigarette manulacturen may

the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials say they resent o0 television or la aewapapert Nor
The government agreed to allow markets Uo producta that éndanger They can advertise only througb
others into the business oaly under pcople's health. like cigarettes and posiers hung near cigarette racks of
ycar since stif! reetrictions 00 for. "This really burts our feelings. sold, as well as through promo-
a American cigareties in Taiwan  tbe United Sutes docs legisiator. not en- also place 120 ade a year in E
have soared, generating much- courage its poople to smoke, why zines, cach a whosc droulation acl-
pegdod growth for American man- export de Taiwan? Younger people dom cxooods 200,000.
and tbe number of anti-smoking causc of American ada. They hire rettes accouatod for lcas than 1
asert al Agrioulture, people B Tal- difficult lor funok boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets lioenaed 1o sell

femaics are smoking a lot 6e Bdore last yoar, forcign ciga-
young attractive 19-yoar-ol girls cent o( tbe market Taiwan
Suuva short skirts 01 give . cig- posed strict quotas on
Depart- arettes free in nightclubs. K's s cigarettes, banned imporis at &
and then it becomas a habit. It's cigarettes and imposed stiff tariffs.

&A
forcip

immoral."

E roeult imported cigaretie cost

1/S000SZ
