LOS ANGELES TI:ES
Los Angeles, Californio
October 20, 1954
n
heen proved,

hainl upon the premise that hination n' a partirular tvpe
nonection hetween rica- in each nf the three rategories
ret smoking and disease 2 has already produced 'a sale
Might Take Six Months one it is. so all can be made
Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. It not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Clarence Cook Littie,
compiete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad-
date, said that "some Sav we visnrs board and seient-fic di.
tive evidence before develop- try Research Committee, de-
ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would
nne has said just what the de produre some of "the defni.
finitive evidence wnu.d be." iive exidence" to waich Dr
Hr sad he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In his talk 1n the Ameriran "We wiil tackle simultan-
system was more important, line of the industry's research
migh: prove surcessful in six do not have today the experi-
months, "with isck," he said menta! evidence rhat will prr-

cigarette 16 so, scientific re-
search should prove which
should find one, "since peo-
ple like to smoke cigarettes."
rector o: the Toharro
seribed the mutlines nf stud-
Tackle Unknewns

Calls
'Safe'
Cigarettes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming
NEW YORK. Ort. 19 (1LP)

Expert
for

lale I'niversity statistician

should

wait for more defini

Indus-

this viewnoint.

The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Societs meeting. Dr. eously manv of the unknowns
arette smoking with bath Hammond said the relation- in this feld of tobaccn use in
lung cancer and heirt dis. ship nf rigare:te smoking to relation to human health. à he
ease is "overwhelming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out-
something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitive
once about developing "a safe health. than the relationship findings in an area where
cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to much suggestive work has
cal scientist told the annual find a safe cigarette" from heen done. The program nf
meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recognizes tha: xe
Tobacco Industry Research Inhacen, there are varinus relationship hetween en rom-
Committee ansounced some of types n! filters, and these are mental factors, inelnd line
the details nf its seientific re. varinus terhn'ques n! euring The most

Cancer Society today.
At the xame time the scien-
t'fic advisory board of the
search program

Outlines Deseribed
There are various types of
which in toharen, he Raid, and it may

mit scientific conclesions re-
garding the rause and efert
smokire and lune eancer
important procect
current lung cancer rases in
10 medical centers in :he :'n
ed States and Canada,

he thar some fortuitors com- set up was a dirert soudy a

901 ANGE LES EXAMINER
los Ange: les, California
October 20, 1954

It will inelude numerous
studles of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers,
an well as tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspeets
of the research were disclosed
today. The apecifio research
grants, financed by the TIRC,
will be announced later.

HEALTH

ON TOBACCO
YORK, Oct. 19.-
A broad stx-point study seek
tng lanowledge whether eigareta
or other forms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health baz.
ards was announced today.
It is the first announcement
of a big research program
headed by the selentifie ad.
visory board of the Tobacco In.
dustry Rese areh Committee

NEW

(TIRC),

COR TI 14062