New! Improved! Dangerous?
4!A1 More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium, Experts Fear Toxic Reactions
a Lawasse Lasunan gemalle 7he Funhingh Pat huet
much hore akiua than :e bund of du a real enntalaed 200 to 400 natilignms of the OI course signe Purdur's Winer, fur pen pler niw stetting nely 201 in 400 millisprems ofralchas daily. the coud dia ic und Ad. del a bot of people vereal do ot auly dat 1 Wood omeurn ar you don drink mitk, your caleium con umption de alant 300 le 400 millig min a das" he Rays That's rule of thumb people H ouk With the cocption officas now udu de rescarchere agrée that i's paket act to ost aume in: a than a 500 miflistrams ealcium daily, regardlese n variations d - erption I Count up, a ves Aava "Mala ser - remex sent - Ahn Wod myn that sta within de thul * parsienter a a hour a dul de with moliur tnine be Mes mate esde ine and a teenage son who alreade grte plents h dacr dint of the de a & food he sh might Lay a chan fur titie en nr E a cinunfortitied mia, cere a and an a tut bo spusles mill nr ou a - mte aller fexehalt - adtine ar han coutple bowts a osreal an an after dost una could cusly be Metung thousands of ind Kerares sofcakivan. Wiad and other rencerchers abe aumey that an best 40 get yourcalcium fre arani ety of foods rather than 000 or two heavils furtified SERA and Uut at kast sour of shoud come four auth and other dains peod wote "ffisturiqde. Wigwer explain, peo ple à hans bosu deficient in cadcium hunx lem low le ANA a reollavin. vitamir Y and vitamin DE a mailable in mik, "Dalry was a kind of one atop shupping ke
A Calcium-Fortifled Day 3/4 a Total cemal is up catcum fortifind skis ma pe a in fortified Minte Maid onnge halce LUNCH 10 a ee han a Swies choese Wunder Englich a a Nutel-Gral bar 3a aklaless chickan Lmast to MPS Semad Courtry Crack Plus Cakek a baked potate, tappes wit the Sheass Sereud Country Save Bhe Galokm € a - - a en Orears Calekam Ridh vatille ice cream a 2 - la
à enlcium meommendation for teenagen is 008"1 milligrams: adults 10 age sn,
mint ral 2,500 : 000'1 110 350 30 know" 300 120 83 272 10/ 150 130 200 140 a 142 - 26 11 22 212 is 50 162 600 ato 3.304 407 a
of foercal with mist anda das 1.000 milligrams; and adults Stelus, 1.200 milligranis. Het with the duens of a orange huion fior herak fad A ent cluma-fortitied foods on the market today, as case to comsanier more den vid Sollowed ler a sack lue le the milligram a Tulerable Upper Intake Level set try de Nathal Acadang of late aftern km M dimer, nome heefor chick Selence even on diet of only vog't calurion, Check rut the halluming m -
achtine aman adchecse 1 a and a couple of siggepation topped with monprine, Adluwest 40 a dele multivita BREAKFAST min/mineial pili kr nutritional a eurance." levu while watching AL in the evening a halteup (olay, a cap) u ke oreun Sounds rethy remons able, ride? Actually. depending on fhe trands dasite, Juca day paces could net L* Hamand -cheme samderick: tween 3,000 and 3.500 mulligrams Re cald and *** paticantly sare thas the "Tulevable Upper latale Level" e 2,500 miligrans met lor the the National Acadeny et Scienes a NOONSIL: SNACK (NAS). many foode are how fortitied with calclum that - has beeume made a de a a - the safety laalt. Ant that has ne a DINNER trition resenderere comermed "As whh anything 1 ons be a 1/2 oup hinccol topped with pruhlem sag Richard od, chief of the Mineral Pas Nioaniability Labomtory ar the Houn Nutrition Research Center al Tuts University in Boeton. The wiadow betwesa mutimal lotale a the upper limis le ader. thehr mell a Indeed, the stetquale intale EVENING SNACK ingonysa be the NASH 1,000 to 1,31 0 mil ligrams day, depending an ag Or itr twice dest madetod h Glant andSaleeay that "yunone and you've reachod the safety ceiling. Hur marg other eutrienta, you'd TOTAL lave a incrome the a degante intake maur tinorn hefore maching riky kvela What can happes a you take in toe mach caleium ows tame? 6 sugs there have beun "on the order of 30 cax reporta ofcal sium tonkity, which can evelleit cank as a lie a perbops laie me d ther function.
un al Bue Metabolie lab at FURL this padage of autalente de oufin 5 a
fhom. disulees and wolt thvue cal Adfication Othen agre thet caleium dortified foode agr She alw queatlune the LO00 mil mahi a - Warde mone diffied ir pon e The hiden, made a and thue, "micht br are a ressonable eption. a fave the come en ligmans of ralchum new I te ewn ww * Se ort akin bet me nren maily de a mert Nowly winemhir." he remarks, and a furtificution," SIN Robert Heaney. eut ind offital voral, ARLL an a level ether ubstanne foome codrian lon de Thon, ton hopercalcenala, as toxiclay et Onuha Aad unlike Wind, he's not partie a an reondented level. probubly higher Irwin Rosenberg. directur of the Nutri the mlacru is caded, can - ou vale Akine utarty concerned about anyoer a e deg owr than Inang odher cadcium fust tifled hod, thon 100 arch Center at Tulla, laparticul durb dome furmatin, partieu darbr a peogle mbu boant "There are lota & very 3 thy people Wemer ha nome reservar tion, tox, be movermed that a fol witha hid com mini have had astone 1 the port Too a mach cale whe on same lots more than ithel limi he L - a the quicka in the hofy a woyptange thn ofa single mutrle ut will lat people into an can adio roduce abe urption ef two other daims Some popalacions whe depend on ne calcium, - a will absorb miors calcium it unhlag the au nourhhing the 114 Nes ade E ntialminerabe tron anit - the fatter 4 lanely en dun diet, sach an cowberds : you hure dirated dum thrunghonf the das quately fvit dont get of the hok of Mad. Much h accopun for wound bealis leg and 5 Alrica and hel Lapps he hurd ceindeer F - Thod's wder poople whe uhe ouo ind prudcut dictary cholees beause you ve phe A fu actioning a the inmune anten sorthern fi dinni a "typically a 6,000 millignams' worth a calchum upplements picled a teu lie a iis fortified fuods he While sach problems bave ben rar vota about which foods the mineral oudht te A sha dot hisunulabality testing ke Total's your bones completuly proterted jast be www a superusarket sbelves rabes the Hur intance, Dres ver in aww tor narket I thit the cakian in the vereal el ale demaity is d strenghened le excrdan," he tlinet 2 heil heoming more common, ing ke - thet contaion 300 mitigrams sorbed a welast the cadciura inmik For - ""V a weakend ang lita vitamin Nut that Wiond thinks calcium-fortified of caldium per halfeup inatead of d typical every SONTA mitigrame A ralcium comumed D. which in necessary ER calclum absorp foodsares bud thing r think they a pood 100 nitigrar whr pue Heaney a sa rks * (the amount in ap of mik), the body ab thn- and pertaps by too much sodjun an idca," be a 3 "Avernan I are auch RG mixed foching on the Suck fand situs worbs DOO millign am or runghly 30 percent. caticine. Buch matink SOMRY wuth le fuch the a ane 4 a an te 20 yeare oht averup Adde Conale Wienves, onichum lavestiga che ahorption rate gie dem. = you have Te other wunda, a Hauney pa a . only abaut 700 millim ume et ole clem a dag. toe at Pardue Univenity in Wicat Lalayette, three le ker cups ad mille in one siting- um h onb ene part of the pur rde Past he when they shoukl R curtavaning 1,000 mil d A hate so ane peo a ave theencuse of I antains allent 000r1 milligrama cuase you ve haid a hof et Total doesn leran And wasen 65 1 oldes, who ling a det dou a calciun loeat lota dwialics to 15 perent dout 130 a moun a shand he aedting 1.200 mitigrame, are sak of fu and forkes Then youre solving one ligrams, a's the ane with the Total Since ing in ouly about : Uut amont in a alm- problem whde making anosher ane (prev onn arrving mpplics 1,000 namigrama, yea Bating Righr culum. rie Lawrence adtre - on the ander of TRASHEPOS MRE A mit Hour Daw lachon chief of the Cald in other a inde a met abe bing temibly - it fralth d Nin
um researcher at Cretubton University 0 2 fortification, ste B - mumenda, la certalnir 1
We had a study & det temenopaush won te 00074 milligrans of al are per day - daly are advinel te malline their two 300 599 m." Wiud reporta Highealeiom dicts ne hew "abschately au problems," be says milligam pills e different naraln,
Jamen Flort, a mineral researcher at Pur
duond xing baland
Por he and others de have 9990 suopnaiseau Heancy denstrated the point when he des printscad, fue thes your don't evee have
- a plethura A cal. dum-fortinitiod Reum addod 19, mwh love due the reconunendidion" Ta - hr dory for men althongh the thee
prodares General Mos, On one hand, he cause 1 re grting ou of cuddun. "Bis - But a the caklum LE a * me iarr a mlacral from a Inaly via the urinc. . a t selr I IGO of thow, Heanes - Linder de a a vfle Nitor the Tate
all the hoses
of obesityl I
