DALLAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Texas April 14, 1954
Tobacco Firms Ask
New Cancer Studies NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing growers: and tobacco charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers. tional" statements linking smoking Among those quoted by the com. and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer Inatitute of the United States Gov- relationship of ermment, which said h a 1953 cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of for exhaustive research a estab- had not been established. lung Several cancer lish the basic cause of the disease. ot the institutels scientista also The tobacco industry research were cited, Others quoted were the Damon booklet con- Runyon Fund, which called for taining previously published state- more research, and Chicago à ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgoon Dr. Max Cutler, who itles doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons by other cancer experts that tobac- deveiop lung cancer partly because may of smoking but that to accept the The earliest, whitten in 1923, sald conclusion of a direct there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientitic relationship none that would produce tuinors. hazardous." The most recent, dated last March F smoke in the lungs were a "91 said much more research must sure-fire cause of cancer, we' 'd all be done before causes of lung can- have had it long or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence ago," Cook report The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratory, Bar Har- s January to combat. mounting bor, Maine. charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the up of nearly every.major cigarette University of Texas School of Medi- manufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Inaur
industry alded picture of the committee issued a co causes tung cancer.
k
apd the
cer can be establisbed.
director of the Roscoe B, Jackson Littie, ance Corapany and British author- ities, Nearly all those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until an absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report was described by an industry spokesman as 5 "in- terim" statement, pending ane nouncement of the choice of 4 prominent scientist to supervise basie cancer research de be a nanced by the industry. That scien- tist will decide how the industry's cancer-research money le a he spent. No date has been set for his At the last count, the committee said, there were more than a cancer research grants in the United States alone, "any one of which might produce evidence to unlock the secrets of lung cancer,"
selection.
