XA58
Peptide Hormones. Growth Factors. and Soma H (ed): Placenta: Basic Research for Clinical Application. Int. Conf. on Placenia Tokyo. "0661 Basel. Karger. 1991, DP 105-114 Isolation of a Xenobiotic Metabolizing Cytochrome P-450 (P-45050K) with No Aromatase Activity from Placental Microsomes of Both Cigarette-Smoking and Yoshio Osawa. Tadayoshi Higashiyama. Kenji Shimizu'. Endocrine Biochemistry Depanment. Medical Foundauon of Buffalo Research Insutute. Bufalo. N.Y., USA
Placental Proteins
-
Nonsmoking Mothers Nobutaka Yoshida'
- COPY FILE
The presence of different monooxygenase activities has been docu- mented in human placental microsomes. The predominating cytochrome P. 450, that of androgen aromatase, catalyzes the biosynthesis of estrogens [1). Aromatase P-450 has been tbe object of numerous studies to determine its mechanism of action and to purify it [2, 3). Gough et al. [4) reponed the presence of another enryme system which catalyzes the hydroxylation of xenobiotic substances. It has also been reported that a placental cytochrome P-450 is responsible for the hydroxylation of benzo[a)pyrene via aryl hydro- carbon hydroxylase [5-7). The low content of the responding cytochrome P. 450 in human placenta and instability during purification have made it dificult to isolate any other active P-450 enzyme. As a side beneft gained from our procedure to purify and characterize catalytically active aromatase P-450 [3), we found a fraction from the immunoaffinity chromatography which showed a high level of xenobiotic activity with little contaminating aromatase activity. Through the use of conventional purification procedures, we obtained a xenobiotically active P-450 with no aromatase activity: Previous studies on aryl hydrocarbon bydroxylase activity have demon- strated higher levels of this activity in smokers but not in nonsmokers [8, 9]. "Postdoctoral Research Fellows OD leave from tbe Deparument of Obsteincs and
Gynecology. Okayama Univeraty Medical Scnool. Okayams. Japan
PUBLICATIONS
028242
