sa/nly

IHT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Nr York Times Semier

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 08 New Taiwan dollars a
made cigarettes last year, ringing became a issue even in recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22

TAIPET The Marlboro cow. dn sales of $119 million. la 1986, trade E between the United New Taiwan dollari E cents) for a
boy .s his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Staics and Taiwan. Wang Chicn. pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly is shieng. Taiwan' , deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis
Sown. His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered R ing is Japan are more liberal. Com-
Tuykrjd-mams jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted give out free cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign. Television
This frenetic, fast-groming OA- cigaretie exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawod in the United States in 1971.
tioe of nearly 20 million peopie ly because both Taiwan and Japan school students 12, E! years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
amoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long- suanding restrictions. are DOW smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry a label that,
year and for the first time, a According to the Brown & Wu- rette companica promote cigareties roughly translated, says, "For the
ubstantial number of chem were Hamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? It's O.K. W have them sake of health, don't smoke too
made in America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" a warning much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year, re- joy 915, billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting S' si billion in new sales, the United States. But those people mandaled in the United States.
Wacturers have essentially intro In Japan, which has - population are just like robbers. JI you are A Tbe 'companies say Amencan
ing teen-agers o take dn moking, more than OJ perceat last year, thing Suoin with the way they are cigareties are made of blended to

and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.

panies can advertise on TY after

out this city, next to posters & a peroent.
er of Winston cigarettes.

"They go 01 amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

for most of the growth is American be said recently. "Many school- Susupape of cigarettes was out-

paonp cigarette advertising 10 the of 120 millioa and where people,
island, and that has created E furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year. N
Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled E American
tbe American companies of entic- the past year. The market share of
The goverament-administed dicis that il could grow lo is 8. 20 sales pitch.
operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992.
pressure from Washingson. in the alcohol.
.cign cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw
have soared, generating much- courage its
peadod prowth for American man-
laws in way dn

human being. you won't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiman
not 01 much because ol the adver.
manufactur- tising a because they are of better
quality and taste beiter. American
and bacco and have less tar than Tai-
producta their say wascse cigarettos, which are not

cigarette
their

American cigarettes increased to) E vigorously deny there in any-
Department of Agriculture pro- ihry have no pians lo change
American pressure to open their have they pusbed sodo so, they say.

charge the American companies
tised, altbough it does pow,

botly deay.

from 3 percent 5' 1986, and the promoting

bleaded.

Tbey are not allowed te advertise
La small stores where cigareties are
a legisiator. tions. Cigarette manulacturers may
to amoke, why zines, cach ol whoec droulation acl-
dom exooods 200,000.
young attractive 19-yoar-old giria oent of the market. Taiwan a
Suyran short skirts oi pive dut cig posed strict quotas on forcign
and then it becomos a habit. It's cigarettes and imposed stiff tariffs.

the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials say tbey resent 00 television or in newspapers. Nor
The government agreed fo allow markets de producta that éndanger They can advertise only through
.others into the business oaly under poople's health, like cigareltes and posiers hung near cigaretie racks or
year since stiff restrictions on for. "This really burts our feelings, - sold, as well as through promo-
à American cigarettes la Taiwan A.. tbe United Shau-kong Suates docs not en- alao place 120 ada a year in maga.
the Uaited Suates are way down and femaics are smoking a lot be Before last yoar, forcign ciga-
and tbe number of anti-smoking causc of American ada. & hire rettes accountod for leas than - per-
According 01 U.S. Depart- arettes (roe in nightclube. Ws vory cigarettes, banned imports at the
meat ol Agriculture, poople B Tal. difficult for tunak boys to resist, 70,000 retail outlets licenaed to sell

poople

sfacturers at a time when sales in expori to LUVANL Younger poople

the

immoral."

Aia result, imported aigaretim cost