HKW2223022

Life Seiences Vol. 15. PP. 1291-1300
Printed in the -

Perganon Press

a OSTAROLISM or aromo (A)PYRENE BY KICROSONES PRON
TISSUES b PRECHANT AND TOTAL MAMNTERE
Trene T. Mang, Ronald E. Rasmunsen, and T. Timothy Crocker*
Cancer Research Institute, Univeraity of California, 3 Prancieco. and Depart-
ment of community and mvironnmental Medieine, Univeraity of Californin, Irvine".
(Received in final form 26 August 1974)
Sumary
Pretrestment of hansters with benzo ta)pyrene (BaP) grestly incressed
the in vitre netaboliam of hat by lung alerosonns from prognant hau-
atars, and had i effect on the metabolim of BaP by iiver alero-
somes. the produetion of varioue metaholites of Bap by lung miere-
sonos war inereaned 3 different axtentar 3-hydroxy-mar (3-CH-BAPT
i one : the najor matabolitess the metabolic yielde ot 9,10-
dihytrodihuptroxy-RaP (9,10-diol) and 7,0-diol vexe incrensed tore
than that of . 4,5-diol. In the chee of 1iver nierosomes, only the
yielde of 9,10-dioi and 7,0-diol vera incressed ovar the contrel
leveis, The presence of cyclohexene oxide in the incuba tion mix-
tures decressed the production of the diole. Basal-level eneyme
activities in placental, fetal 1iver, and fetal akin aicrosones in
metaholizine Mp vere very lov, Pretreatment of pregmant hainatere
with Bap indaced RaP-netabolizing ensymes a fetal tierue 2-3 fold.
Bense (alpyrene (harl ie . carcinogen and environmental containinant that in
found in eoal car. mineral ofl, car exhaust, totacce snoke, moket foode, ete.
(1). In vitro stadiee shoved that 2 tabolie activation of Bar : required for
ita intaraction with proteine and nuclele aelde (2,3). Farller studien with
rat 1iver preparations :4,5) and hanster liver microsome (6,7) abowed that Bar
le metahelised minly 8 phenolie and dihydrodihydroxy (diel) derivatives, and
S quinones which : ensynatie or air oxidation peoducte of unstable phenolic
metabolitas (4,51 as vell an some unidentified a polar metabel ites, The
netabelien of Rat has generally been ressured by the production of 3-hydroxy-
Bar (3-GR-RaP) which ie often one of the major metalolites La vitro (31. 3-0H-
DaP ie tosie te evitured celle (9), hut it shove vary 1ietle interaction wi th
DNA in vitro (6) and has not been shown 3 be carcinogenic. On the other [
K-regton epowides of related polycyelie aronatie hytrocartone (PAN)bind to cell-

1291