akersof igarettes
KUN
Pot Interestin : . RANGE r'M3 sal TONE TOBACCO company rette manufacturet Tuesday, recommendation was say they have * in for per- diversifying to market mari- legalize marijuana despite Hodes over 18 years of age juana, market Ilkit of the while the. biggest I might be a lower age brack- on the Causes PrPrevention fuet warkanthas 5 ol Violence Netich zrecom- Jane sort of goes mends legalization of LIVMERIEN com- the youngsters." for adults. Sam Fouts. advertis- Pasimpor "No, no no,tos Do, has Sing manager for Larus Bros. TCALA been a rumor pmint 8 of Ricbmond, Va. and us.caase angant years DAVERN "'Mary Jane is an old nick- 03 check RE thoroughly, for marijuana but gen. There is' no'approach to E Nas pame - erally has fallen Into disuse anywhere. the industry. a among the young. KW William Kloopfer theTo - Fouts, noting that mari- bacco Institute, declared., 20 la "still a rather taboo ADERS the in- LNST383HLL MERISING month Sopocic" in "cigarette of, ay 1 dustry, poriseydus that his goes by thatsome segmént. company "wouldn't touch it the underground 1 press STat all." 14 - doesn" 't cerry astory about how companies are a - tobacoo gearingup for the marifuana Bolling. - vice and assistant chairmaniotiPhiltp Morris, a Inc. a - $ a a He Bad thatwhile this type of "speculation was under- "algepuns me, tobacco com- panies'are publicly beld, and under strict goveryment con- trol; noone 'can eved remote- Jy become involved'because at the present mari- juana la illegal." ASAN : -There have been persistent stories: that "tobacco com- panies already have regis- tere d as possible brand names trademarks .chat in- clude some of the current ve- na e ula r associated with marijuana, and that 'they have been buying up huge tracts ol land in Mexico on which to harvest marijuana. weversrus "WE'RE NOT filing for trademark names like 'Aca- pulco Gold' or buying land south of the border, corg mented, Jobr
Claim
"NEW YORK CAPTASCiga. official noted that the staff
rumfzer
