FF
Principal Investigator/Program Director (Last, first. middle):
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH POSITION TITLE
Give the lollowing information for the key porsonnel and consuliants and collaborators. Begin with the principal
investigator/program director. Photocopy this page lor each person.
NAME
Constance Smith
Postdoctoral Fellow
EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or offer initial prolessional education, such as nursing. and include postdoctoral training.)
YEAR CONFERRED 1986 1994
INSTITUTION AND LOCATION Weslcyan University, Middletown, CT University of California, Berkeley, CA Emory University School of Medicine
DEGREE B.A. Ph.D.
FIELD OF STUDY Biology Molecular & Cell Biology
Postdoc 1994-present Anatomy & Cell Biology
RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Concluding with present position, list, li chronological order, previous employment experience, and honors. Key personnel include the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the project. Kay personnel typically will include all individuats with doctoral or other professional degrees, but in some projects will include individuals at the masters or baccalaureate level provided they contribute in a substantive way to the scientific development or execution of the project. Include present membership on any Federal Government public Arosupe committee List, in chronological order, the titles, all authors, and complete references to all publications during the past three years and de representative earlier publications pertinent 10 this application If tho list of publications in the last three years exceeds two pages,
select the most pertinent publications DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES. RESEARCH/PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
11/86 12/87 01/88 07/88 - 08/88 06/94 07/94 - 08/94 09/94 present HONORS 1993 1994 1995-1996 PUBLICATIONS Papers
Research Assistant, Anatomy & Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. Participated in biochemical purification of tropomodulin in the lab ofVelia M. Fowler Research Assistant, Molecular Biology, Research Institute of Scripps Clinic, LaJolla, CA. Assisted in polyclonal antibody production and purification in the lab of Velia M. Fowler. Doctoral Candidate in the laboratory of Dr. David A. Weisblat. Molecular Postdoctoral fellow, in the laboratory of Dr. Shirley T. Bissen, Dept. of Biology, Postdoctoral fellow in the laboratory of Dr Marla B. Luskin, Dept. of Anatomy and Cell Best poster award, West Coast Regional Developmental Biology Conference Invited speaker for minisymposium, Society for Developmental Biology meeting National Research Service Award, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
and Cell
Biology, Univ. of California, Berkeley. University ofMissouri, St. Louis, MO.
Biology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA
Stroke
Smith, C.M. and Weisblat, D.A. (1994) Micromere fate maps in leech embryos: lineage specific differences in Smith, C.M., Lans, D. and Weisblat, D.A. An investigation of cellular mechanisms of epiboly in leech embryos Bissen, S.T. and Smith, CM. mRNA synthesis is required for asymmetric cell division during a critical period of Fowler, V.M. and Smith, C.M. (8861) Inhibition of tropomyosin binding to F-actin by tropomodulin, a new tropomyosin-binding protein from the human erythrocyte membrane L Cell Biol. 107: 681A.
rates of çell proliferation. Development 120:3427-3438.
(Submitted to Development)
early leech development. (In preparation).
Abstracts
PHS 398 (Rev. 9/91)
(Form Page (9 Page 50650464
FF
Numbor pages consacutvely at the bottom theoughout the application Do nor use suftuxes such as 3a. A
