- I Dis Vol. 38 No. 1.pp 17-26. 1985 Priased in Great Britain All rights reserved
0021-9681 85 53.00 0.00 Copyright C 1985 Pergamon Press Lid
PSYCHOSOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ADOLESCENT SMOKERS BEFORE THEY STARTED SMOKING: EVIDENCE OF SELF-SELECTION A PROSPECTIVE STUDY CARL C. SELTZER and FRANK W. OECHSLI Peabody Museum. Harvard University Cambridge. MA 02138 and the Child Health and Development Studics, School of Public Health. University of California. Berkeley.
CA 94720, U.S.A. (Recrired in rerised form 17 dagust 1984)
Abstract- Evidence of noncomparability of self-formed smoker and nonsmoker groups of adolescents from the Child Health and Development Studies of the University of Califomia. Berkeley. was found in a study of antecedent psychosocial characteristics (observed at age 10) before the adoption of the smoking habit. With possible confounding factors controlled. eventual smokers showed significantly greater prevalence than nonsmokers of Type A personality traits, extraversion. psychoticism, anger. and restless sleep Eventual smokers were lower in socio- economic status than nonsmokers. and also eshibited significantly lower mean score for the Raven Progressive Matrices and Peabody Picture Vocabulary tests. For each trait, the trends of the data were consistent in boys and giris Since AUTW of these traits are shown to "track" into adult life. where they are than related oa coronary heart disease. the role of self-sclection requires further consideration in causal inferences about smoking and coronary heart discase
INTROD UCTION
N] RECENT years. many published studies have shown an association that suggests a role for psychosocial factors in the puthogenesis of CHD [I. 2]. in the Framingham Study. univariate and multivariate anulyses showed a positive relationship of certain psycho- social factors to CHD and also 01 cigurette smoking (3-5). The pervasive question of temporal precedence and a priori self-sclection still requires further clarification, however. In the absence of controlled experiments. the effects of cigarette smoking on health have been inferred from observational studies that compare persons who smoke with nonsmokers. In these comparisons. the disease outcomes are assumed to occur in cohorts ofsmokers and nonsmokers who were initially similar in all relevant characteristics except for the difference in smoking habit. Very little evidence has been available. however. to The unique data of the Child Health and Development Studies (CHDS) of the University of Califomia, Berkeley. provide an opportunity lo check this assumption by examining antecedent characteristics associated with teenage smoking [6-8]. The CHDS in a prospective investigation of children from birth to late adolescence At snoues stages of their development, the children were examined as to their biological, social. and In this report, we have analyzed the antecedent psychosocial characteristics of a large cohort of boys and girls before some of them later began cigarette smoking as teenagers. Reprint requests should be addressed to: Frank * Oechsli. Child Health and Development Studies, This project * - supported be Grant E from the Peabody Muscum. Harvard Liniversity
verify this assumption.
personality status. as well as environmental and familial influences.
2131 University Ave., Berkeley, CA 94704, U.S.A.
8 38 -
17
