Vol.

No. 23

EDITORIALS

1317

The New England
Journal of Medicine
Official Organ of
The Mossaclusetts Medical Society
Founded la 1812 as the Neve ENGLAND Jouxal or
MEDICINE SURGERY and continued in 1828 se Vol. of
the BOSTON MEDICAL AND SURGICAL JOURNAL
Puatisues WEEKLY BY THL COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATIONS
or THE MASSACHUSErTS MEDICAL SOCIETY
Claude E. Weich, M.D., Cininman
Joseph Carland, M.D., EDITOR EMERITUS
Franz J. ingelfinger, M.D., EDITOR
ASSOCIATE Entroas
George S. Richardson, M.D., Boos Reviews
Robert O'Leary, ASSISTANT EDITOR
EDITORIAL BOARD

ACTION NO ASBESTOS
AsBESTOS workers are unintentional victims of
industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary
fibrosis, pleural culcification, mesotheliomas and lung
cancer. Asbestos exposure in now widespread,
wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the
lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex-
posure. Whatever the exact nature ?, asbestos or
ferruginous bodies may be, there is no doubt that
electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers
ease in the general population at this time, the
presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing.
Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by
most chemical and physical means and can float
freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods.
Asbestos discases have a long latent
sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must
be made now, on the basis of "reasonable probabili-
à rather than after a delay for a precise definition
of dose-response relations.
These thoughts are reinforced by the work of

involving not

air but also

AND

only

drinking water,

Alexander Marble, M.D.
Samuel Proger, M.D.

Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al-
Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-

20
period,

Jane la Desforges, M.D.
Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.

Ronald < Mait, M.D.

Arnold L. Smith, M.D, years or more. We therefore believe that more

Robert E, Johnson, M.D.
Norman "p Levinsky, M.D.
Francis D, Moore, M.D,
Charies A. Sanders, M.D.
Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D.
Ronald A. Arky, M.D.
Dana L. Farnsworth, M.D.

Joha W. Littlefield, M.D. Murphy and associates in this Issue of the Journal
Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, 6 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in
Louis Weinstein, M.D, new ship construction include better than
John R. David, M.D. exposure data and indicate a high incidence of as-
Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. pestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have
Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-

Howard Bleich, M.D.

usual

Isadore N Rosenberg, M.D.
Milion C. Paige.Jr. BUSINESS MANAGER

tions. A second study of Murphy et al. reports two
cases of pleural disease (one mesothelioma) in
workers who sanded asbestos floor tiles. Since the

AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au-
und should consult "information for Authors." This malerial thors simulated the working conditions and found
may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour- conçentrations of 1.3 Abers per milliliter 'of room
nel, or it may be obtained from the /oarnal office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of currently
CASE REPORTS, usually published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 10: Abers every
gence" section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled

manuscript, including references, should be typed double
spac * and all material, including figures, should be submit-
reference to articles reporting closely related cases. < very fibers remains in the
short case report or a description of a technic submitted as a
"BRier RECORDING" should be limited OI 500 words,
MATERLAL printed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period.
cine is covered by copyright, The Journal does not hold iuelf
responsible for statements made by any contributor.
NOTICES should be received not later than noon on Mon-
day, 24 days before date of publication.
cies published. Requests should be sent to the author.
imply endorsement by the Journal,
Arbor, Michigan 48106.
chusetts 02115.

used threshold limit values. A

Aber per milliliter of
figures suggest that

ted in duplicate.

room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per
an alarming number will still accumulate over a 10-
A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation-
et Academy of Sciences panelt has called for control
of asbestos emissions at the source and for protec-
The report also calls for further rescarch on the

these
lung,

REPRINTS: The Jourmal does not stock reprints of the arti- tion of those who are exposed in their occupations.
ALTHOLGH all advertising material accepted is expected to biologic effects and the physical characteristics of
conform so ethical medical standards, acceptance does not asbestos fibers; such data are urgently needed "if a
SUBSCRIPTION PRICES (worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with
interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates are in U.S. fundsonly. confidence." Although we endorse these recommen-
MICROFILME volumes available to regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for
through University Microfilms, 315 "N First Strees, Ann technical controls based on existing
COMMUNICATIONS shouid be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as-
land Journal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects

knowledge.

on cells and tissues are important and must be con-