True-ra Ine Questlons on the Chenistry and 457450101644045454 Odor end Flavor
la H F Sone nodern workers suggoat that nocurnte mensurenent of vibratlonal
frequency (in the far infrared, for exenple) of an unknown odorant
will permit prediction of its quallty and intensity.
No elenente substance, not even halldes or ozone hos any odor; Instead
they react with the nucosa forning new products whlch are smelled; but
A Sone odorants have sterle or vibrational propertles which force the
concluslon that they are odor less whon they are not.
11, TF Present evidence strongly suggests thet dlfferent parts of the olfactory
receptor ares, Ilke the retina In the eye, are quailty-specific.
T Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor
No one yet has a fire clue as to the critical relation between the
molecule and the receptor which permits an odor perception.
The greater the secretion rate of mucous or sellve, the higher their pH,
and both pHi and temperature influence 2 quality of sensation in the
111. H The ideal Instrumental detector 2 le respond to odors in the sane
quantitative range ns does an animat or human subject.
1 a Such an Ideat detector has not been developed.
Ihman observers with head In fixed position can by virtue of the twe
Indopondent nostrils easily discern stereo suoll effects, 1.e. they
can tell whotier a odorant is ot the right or left hand, much : one
uses nis two ears in locating the source of a sound.
For certal In musk-liko compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to
trigger a hunon olfactory response
v. - Adaptation to one olfactory qunlity does not significantly reduce
sensitivity to any of ther dissiel lar quality, but does reduce sensi-
tivity to all sinllor qualities.
- By enploying a similerities nethod of compering qualities, one con now
obtain Identity and degroes of difference without recourse to troshlo-
vi, - Hunger lowers thresholds stightly : some food quallties but not for
It S! now possible to loentify the Intensity and quality of a certain
given stimull sinply by expert examination of the electrophysiological
record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons.
Electrical stimulation of taste in nan yieids only reports of "sour"
and a "metallic" or "alkaline" quality.
Direct electrical stimuletlon of the olfactory senso has never yet been
successfully accompilshed.
VII. 1 Although total anosala is rare In humons and ageusla even rarer, there
is evidence that in analogy to color vision deficiences, some people
are Insenaitive to (only certein) qualities while having normal
sensitivity to others.
Toplcal anesthetics applled to the tongue show that different quelities
Certaln endocrine diseese entitles make It possible for some people
quite sensitively to "smell" such "odor less" substances es sucrose or
sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be
reduced to normal by manipulation of endocrine levels.
Premenopausa wonon at the time of ovulation find certain odors extremely
disegreeab le whlle at other times In the menstrun cycle these same odors

some elements possess taste.

surface lo order to be smelled,

chenicnt senses.

Iv.

sone words.
others.

of taste disappear at different rates.

they will judge quite pleasant,

Ori