NEW.YORK-POST, FRIDAY, MAY- 17,1994
NEWYORKPOST
Ancevaca alder contiononsly pabeished faisity newspuper

Anti-smoking skulduggery
smoking poses no danger to human Scruggs insists he 1,upip "buy" any doc-
health ET about to testify on behalf of the uments. Perhaps not, But unless he has
tobacco industry. Suddenly it's revealed enterod the banking business, it is un-
tobacco lawyers. It also emerges that from the liams with such substantial "loans."
same lawyers have bought the re Moreover, how are reasonable people to
scarcher a house and have ço-signed two interpret Williams "salary?
car loans for him. In his defense, the 8 This is not the first time Scruggs has
entist insists that, except for the salary, been involved with a subsidized whistle-
Question: How would the media likely Brown &, Williamson executive Jeffroy
react? A huge brouhaha to say the Wigand. CBS Newe promised de pay the
The scientist's research, whatever ita Williamson pons Wigand for breaching
actual merits, would be buried under a his contract's confidentiality clause dur-
mudslide of derision. The tobacco indus- ing a widely reported appearance on 09,
L grounds for attempting 8 buy a wit- CBS lawyers, fearing that the offer to
Now let's change a few details. Say the preted as an inducement to break the
scientist is a "whisticblower" who asserts contract, initially scotched the segment.
that the tobacco industry la fully aware After the substance of Wigand's charges
that cigarette smoking is lethal and has hit the newspapers, his interview was
The lawyers providing the salury and Meanwhile, the anti-tobacco forces also
"loans, rather than working for the to- suffored 'an embarrasement when a for-
bacco industry, are B" fact spearheading mer Philip Morris employee recanted tes
There you have the chain of events that. Drug Administration (FDA).
actually unfolded recently in a Louisville, Jerome Rivers, a former
Yet the near-silence sur- supervisor for the conglomerate, manufacturing with-
rounding the incident has been deafen- dréw his claim that Philip Morris rou-
run the story on Page One, reported that "evidence" to justify regulating tobacco as
a law firm representing Brown a Wil- Critics incessantly portray the
rewards. mortgage Williams and other financial "crime" consists in selling a legal prod-

Imagine this scenario: A scientist who
that he is secretly receiving a salary

claims to have discovered that cigarette leading opponents.

clear why Scruggs pmom provide Wil-
blower: He also represented former
latter's legal fees in the event Brown &
pay Wigand's legal costa could be inter-

it's all just a loan.
least.
ness.

a would be roundly condemned on ethi- Minutes."

worked 3 conceal this fact for decades. eventually aired.

the campaign against it.
courtroom.
Ky.,
Today, one of the few
insa
liamson Tobacco
$109,000
neys suing the tobacco companies.
His benefactor was
Scruggs one of the tobacco lawyer

timony he had given os the Food and
tinely measures and adjusts nicotine lev-
(The FDA hoped to use this
tobacco
Americans #
enjoy.
when the shenanigans, is clear that
subject of ethics comes up,
some of tobacco's foes would do well 8:
industry's take a careful look in the mirror.

els.
papers to

Merrell Williams, a former paralegal for a drug.)
corporate documents available to attor- After these

Corp., received a industry as amoral, even though ita
had made internal uct that millions of

Richard