BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
Area stores
SAT
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For the Dally Camera nors. kids. kar
referring to the increased enforce- penaly lur selling tobacco to a ml tried to buy Une cigaretles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busi. Store clerks unlucky enougb. OF nesses this week during a crack. getcaught were issueda summons down on selling cigarettes 11 ml- to appoar ut court. The. maximum The sting. conducted on the eve -noris B 002S. fine of. the American Cancer Soclety's The Suna involved two tcams. Great American Smokeout, was in- Each included u uniformed 'omcer. tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain clothes ancer. and two legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School sirts, who Police targeted Kas stations, con- giris" parenis signed a waiver al: venience, drug, grocery and dis. Towing themtotake par thc. op: Tawhas neverbeen enforced, said The juvenlles were told not to Jopinog Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "We're letting the stores know had t show identification.
>
'count stores. Unul recently, the eration. this io going a happen," ahc sald,
the cigareites. and, If asked, they (Sce BOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors de At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry 28uh SL, one of the giris asked when she was iestied the cashler for a pack of Mart mons. ous cald she 912M stur boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- jusp and couldn't atord tne ness, 5, plain clothes, poops in court costs. Haukeness poû "01 inina-hehind her to witnese thç 6018010 hér, saying she could- A placard near the cash regis- the Distriet Attorney to do auros " ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity acrvice instradof paying clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clorks, not the store ownr cation. The buyer produced lier ers ot manugers, have to pay the.: she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l du it a -4sund cd at the license, act it down on stores or clerks," she said. "Al-: the counter, and sold her the though, when you scc clerks cry: Afier they left, Haukeness Boulder Polica targeted -ST stepped dn and identified him aloros and clerks a allbur four eelf as a police officer. Manka recelved summonses. came In and wrote the clerk a This wock's operation was the: trartA., I bee chem ask for an year. Tha first sting, conducted. E I think they're going to 2 in Soptember, targeted 16 stores: osnt the cale," Haukeness sald. und ST clerks received sum
(From Page 1C)
The clerk at Colony Market,
um-
transaction.
prububly work out a deal. with-
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, driver's license, which showed court costs.
cigarettes. summons.
ing, you might think otherwise. secund tobacco sale stine SLE
"But they never do."
monses,
