HKB2228112 SANT BANBAR > HORSA 5
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
La : 2
: M H - IAPARIME / : ram January 3, 1977 Dr. William H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Research roundation 715 Muir Lands Vista Hay La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. fishman: and Salk.
We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of the La Jolia rescarch cordunity. In particular, the activities of the la Jolla Cancer Research Founcation and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establisnrent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental prublems is partisularly ieely. It will be o! gat potential inportance for pulling togetter work by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, characteriztaion and doterniniation of the significance of hunan oncodevelopmental antigens such as alphafetoprotein and carcinursbryonic antigens. One of the goals of the work in our laborators is to determine the relationship of increased serusa concentrations of AFP to presalignant lesions or carcinogen exposure in humans. Our studies on rats and nouse model systers clearly derion- strate tnet anirals exposed to hepatocarcinouens have cleva ated serum AFP concen- trations prior to developrant of ligignant tmers. It is hoped that systeretic study of human scra frum differest sources will determing if serus AFF concun- In addition, the role of envirunnental factors such as hormonal influences on the production of oncodevelogimental gene brj-lu. can be further explored in different sy: tems Such data implies that (he prod; tion of oit ocave elopmental gene product, by tunor cells is net a fixed property of a given tumoir but is He look foneard to working with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the inportant subjert of oncodeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinosen exposure
Subject to enviroumental controls.
express ion. Best regards, Stewart Srll, H.D. Professor SS/nb
