14A- Contra Costa Times
Sunday, October 6 1991
EDITORIALS
soff
Curbing tobacco use Patchwork of local laws spread public call for govemment action? no way to fight smoking writing their own smoking ruies a' that county and city anti-smoking or. smoking in restaurants as of May "1 That dinances like the ones adopted by means peopie who like to smoke while the Contra Costa and Alameda County dining will simply go 01 the next town to Certainly, evidence of the many dan- not comply with the cument rule, which gers of smoking is overwheiming. Tobac- requires restaurants to reduce smoking co is the leading preventable cause of sections to 25 percent or less of available death, killing more Americans than all seating. How many more will close when other drugs, AIDS, murder, suicide and smoking is banned altogether? threat to fetuses and a significant con- less restrictive. But it still creates rules in tributor to a host of diseases. Even sec- unincorporated areas of the county that ond-hand smoke threatens non-smokers. treat businesses differently from those in But as evidence about the threat of most of the cities and towns. sponding increase in public and private Alameda counties have taken aim at reaction against tobacco, making govern. vending machines, banning them in ar- The fact .a that fewer and fewer peo- county hàs made allowances for-ma- ple are smoking or putting up with smok- chines using technalogy thatean prevent ers. Businesses have responded by creat- them from being operated by minors. ing separate smoking sections in affices, Efforts to prevent children. from.buy. Many private businesses have banned officials should better accommodate the smoking in work areas. Smoking bans latest technology and thereby: lessen haye long been in place in theaters, ele- the financial impact on vendors. And the trend is to further restrict and non-smolcing diners. There is no rea- smoking in areas open to the public de son for local governments 8 interfere Businesses are well aware of the public working against smoking. Why, then, should counry and city es, treat everyone on an equal basis and governments feel obligated o; compose protect people from unwanted second- restrictive smoking ordinances of their hand smoke make far more sense than a own, particularly when there is no wide- patchwork quilt of local ordinances.
The problem with cities and counties they create inequities and confusion. For example, Wainut Creek will ban, eat. Already, one restaurant in that city has been forced to close because it could
o we really need a patchwork of supervisors and the city of Walnut
Creek?
car accidents combined It also la a smoking mounts. there has been a corre- ment intervention Jess urgent.
The new Contra Costa ordinance is To.their credit, both Contra Costa and eas accessible 01 minors. But neither ing cigarettes are admirable. But public Also, smoking ordinances should al- low restaurants to cater e both smoking with market forces that already are Statewide smoking laws that accom- modate legitimate interests of business-
restaurants and other public areas. vators, auditoriums and other en- protect people from tobacco smoke. concem about second-hand smoke and have acted accordingly.
closed places.
