WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRIBUNE
D. 25,605
S. 49,326
WACO METROPOLITAN AREA
MAR S i963

F.C Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard-. -Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission froni going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it
does not scem right or logical that onc medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer while
newspapers, magazines, billboards and e ounter
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expectod to review the FCC proposal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC said it is proposing to refuse Jicenses
to broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising
because of evidence that Buyours is injurioun to health
and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public
interest. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals to do
as they please so long as thcy doa't harm another.
Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that if you don't mention something, maybe it wou't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democrat, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Con-
merce Con.mitice, said in reference to the proposed
FCC rule that the Koustu had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has
any right to tell an advertiser what he could not
say in his advertisements, Rogers said Congress will
take a cluse lcok at the whole question of regulations
on television and radio advertising content, not ouly
as o) the Federal Communications Commission but
in regard to Federal Trade Commission practices as
The stakes involved extend beyond the business
of broadcasling. They of to the heart of whether
government burcaus should he allowed to o3 beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Health.

hurt you and will disappear.

well.
:

tho limits of due proccss and thc law,