SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H. complains associased with the "sick building syndrome
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
e al. (1987) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire. The symptoms were more commoa .a build.
In a cross-sectional investigarion in & building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validased were measured on a linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and Ar the same time, the micro-environment (environmental humidification. irrespective of the ade of the buildings. A characteristics in the breathing zone rather than area direct relationship berween the level of complaints and air samples) & characserized by measuring temper 'arus quality parameten was not described. Skov et al. (L961) ex- relasive humidiry, respirable suspended perticulases, car. amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern 1 bon dioxide, noise level, lighaing insensiry, relative har town halls and 11 older control buildings. A I of 1 midiry, and airflow. No relarionship a seen berween I was related 01 a "Neecing" factor (carpets, upholstery. che degree of symptoms and age, educarion, or duranion and horizontal surfaces) a & the "macro-molecular I of employmenu at the building or time spent in she build- nent" of dust. They aho demonstrated a relationship between Shr on a daily basis. Starisnically, complainss were the number of houn suads photocopying and using carboales significanaly more frequent among Suppous men. Envi- Aduo paper and the level of complaints. Other srudies have ronmensal characteristics associased 1 che increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985) complaint levels is this group included decreased airfow and prychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute models, there a 5 association berween respire au- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome b - pended parsiculases and the levels of boch mucous I suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et brane and rystemic complaints. Satisfaction 1 d F (1985) were unable to demonstrate & measurable dif. thermal environment a predicted by percepaion of draft ferences in the concentrations of environmental pollutants R nor clearty consribuse to she degree of ympromu, berween rooms la a mechanically and a naturally veutilated I regression models PIP 4 R comple a building. They studied the rooms with the 1 wene nor independent of thermal parameters. : ing I and used area samples. a et al. (1967) did compl I insensiry a also associated 1 complaints. I strate a relationship between symptoms and both area - mudies of d * building syndrome should examine ples Suynseou dust and a "macro-molecular" fraction, I
velociry and increased levelsof respirable aupende par to indoor air quality complaints.
diculates and dry-buld "amunuaduas 4 mession
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
-
I exposures simultaneously and 1 prycho a area samples.
social measures a idenafy predictors of H .5
Area samples is buildings may Dot be representative of the exporures in different points in - rooms. Physical and shelving may infuence air currents. Radiant heat may
indoor spaces. INTRODUCTION
characteristics such a windows and
partitions, computers,
Complaints sermed the a building syndrome" have kad OI unevea distribution of pollutants. Finally. most t led os numerous investigations in the last 15 years. They aur hutants resuk from point souroes, os they & be diluted a a thought to occur primarity in newty constructed otice 1 subject .m farther removed from the source. A micro * inp and, at least in the past, were thought to be * to viroement around desks and I cubicles may have very inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem, a different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroo- # variety of causes have been identided in specife settings, ment of a building. In addition, all applied occupational and inctuding inadequate semperature and relative bumidity coa- environmental health research that attempes to relate dose so trol, noise, I vibration. volatile organic compounds heakh effects suffers from the problem that doee a penerally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, eaviroamental sobecco measured at several points in time I then extrapolated to smoke, pesticides, dust. entrainment of vehicle exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decades 1 : contaminated air and boiler I fibers released * most heakh effects are measured a a single resuk of from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sampling A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom u a 1984) pasaltins that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to hour, 1 a stratep most fail, (Robertson et al. 1985) was unable to identify differences la attempted a characterize air-quality parameters is the micro wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (temper- eaviroament and set these characteristics a relation to the ature), relative humidity. air velocity, formaldehyde. or * level of individual complaints at a given point is I This itive or negative ions between several rooms . a building report presents results of a cros-sectional investigation of a with natural and a building with mechanical ventilation. problem building using a self-administered, lincar I where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assesment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom i I a Ammant Profesor of Medicine and ol ladustrial and Environmental Heakh Sciences at the Unrveruty of of Medicine Publec Heahh. a [ a Direcsor, Environmental Health and Safery. Camepic-Mellon Univeruty, Pirsburgh. PA.
(Kreiss and Hodpson 1964; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986). marily to mechanical ventilation. The same dnod of authors
results in preater than the difference in average samples, a No investigations in the peer-reviewed literature I
Schoots Pasburgh
and
