by Samuel S. Epstein The ambor surveys the reord of du us kenerated data Emalang endeme shun - J onstrans un data from gluss madequa - biased merpretation, ma uourpelan suppresshm and E to outrighi de. Mtm Tam- ate sommuniplas e. espes iall when prohlable te hnslugirs are muhed. Alarmingh. snh a aden - - jushes strong resen ations as in the saladus of ann data developed hn institunons EN inde nluals whune sommin intetests are du euh or Information a she a - - of sonumis and pulan al pumer thr mon-er aking at all levels of gm. rmment presuppn M thr arlalulty of a buds of in furmatnon, sau the hann of his the relaine merits al ahernate pola a au he anah red and sunsidered If thn mlun mattam ent data base is La nushed ur imal kl. then nhatest de nams tear hed saust abube unpe a an dul threatenng the laben of deme The whriming talk of all beneht and usk data. en hu h nu a tegulators des siuns are hased. ume frem ihe mulunur ws thenneh a hemg egulat a These data ate eithet generated and mterpretce
mehn th alles ted
Miri mment
Bunh into thn prens a adre of sonsulanis, maitutes. whuse duens uf appr.nal pronides she
In m-bune wute stall en In commete a labata generalh from presigens unn ruurs or resear - In-lune wntha sall = nut mmmune to son dana wnh an addummal mantle of authorits 1 he E develupment and mar kemp den 3 tments an anh from the publu bun alu from ther € una aatis le hun thet produn : nter ew anter 3 sur ent insinuten The mulunal mierests a thew miciss Indusmal amma a a usualh Mr anded w. umsulumts ate ethet INN da lesed to the agen a unh tu commets al labun atut a and unn - asues, E nhune antuves and expen committees thev sil. anlunt Imb lung hiv lern whe ned en the upen in - dev hned de usualh mann aamed wt ontdemmal mai ket. pia a haudh emsnent wath the ethn be let's huk at les ane hnter in -
tars and unserse unden 41 and sah onw mas
lu mdusus from teseare h
DE
of identurs these
consultana ats ofien hidden new
all
u - 1.Mlen - malnon la rager fon she awand a funur * met ammune ter ungoken a and man pandun mfes matan a mte - - uh hu d - d the - en thn lumed thr conn mng mulust thugh shen-te - pr moda - = hkeh - refiet e than aug-tem - and alues Suns per a . dhe de at 1 lel a - 2 Plaulek Me . ha - - ter a a a
the fuld a
Comshamt MI thr Cirmrtalut n Delu on the mast ommen problem wath mdustrall gen - etated data a a pm qualus Derph - emed le ed dana sulumated in 1967 In the thr malegua Admant tatenn ivar In indusurs tath I and Dug a addane m suppun haul petitions, sinne Hether Lev purplumas Alamnt hall of the fand addeme stompat mgmall submmer - she a linul and Dug Admmstratum hne hern IDH a m - - hanr mat mlequich supponed shu regula furthre pler Ihes and therten hn tegued suhu tequested
then anmmus
