DALLAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Texas April 14, 1954
Tobacco Firms New Cancer NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing Industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers. picture of the relationship ot committee issued co causes lung cancer.
Ask Studies growers and tobacco toonal" statements linkdng smoking Among those quoted by the com. and Jung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer United States Gov- ernment, which said h a 1953 * cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of lung cancer for exhaustive research to estab- had not been established. Several lish the basie cause of the disease. of the institute's scientists also Olhers quoted were the Damon a bookdet cont Runyon Fund, which called for taining previousty published state- more research, and Chicago à ments by thirty-six cancer author cer Surgeon Dr. Max Cutler, who itiès doubting or decying claims said a few sensitive persons by olher cancer experts that tobac- develop lung cancer partly because may of smoking but that to accept 3 The earliest, whitten ie 1923, said conclusion of A direct there were irritants in tobacco but in sll cases is "unscientitic relationahdp apd none that would produce turnors. hazardous." The most recent, dated last March "If smoke ls the lungs were 16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of be done before causes of lune can- have had it long ago, cancer, the all cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report Little, The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratory, Bar Har- S January te combat mounting bor, Maine. charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the up of nearly every major cigarette University of Texas School of Medi- manufacturer and organizations eine, the Metropolitan Life Inar
slded
Inatitute of the
The tobacco industry research were cited.
we'd a
can x established.
director of the Roscoe B, Jackson ance Company and British author itles, Nearly all those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until an absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report Sea described à an industry spokesman as an A terim" statement, nouncement pending ane of the choice of a prominent scientist to supervise basie cancer research de be fi- nanced by the industry. That scien- tist will decide how the industry's cancer-research money is to be spent, No date has been set for his selection. At the last count, the committee said, there were more than 850 cancer research grants 5 the United States alone, "any one of which might produce evidence to unlock the secrets of lung cancer,
ITO 138765
