. rk
496
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosts
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richard L. Nacye. MD, and Woodrow S. may vaiy in incideric and S-omereet Counties of eentral categories for pneumoconiosis were nnined anthracite roal.
Findings Dollinger, MS rank, low-volatile cosl In Cambrin and l'ean- rylvanla. Nonc of the men had ever ducted between Sur.yy eon- autt and 19-35 ly the Pennsylvania End Mineral lepartmeat of Miner Industries skowed ar a verage coal dunl werk- exposure jer ink rhift of 11.1U,. eutde font of uir fur partdde per biturineg wark- fiee The silica cuntent of evnl d Jat i low la nll arenn of . aeldom belng greater Penneyina ttan $.. However, the mine Jurt coheet.ra t: in of free nilica In greater far sorte . idergruund wurkets Puch as rof 3 crntrilubu. le Jers and cledrie Inemniive ull paracieatiiciat e à who Jrill inte all.a-bearing tuieerrulusin and n.k or encounter palverin 4 othur di aa- precesges." The 77 casce selerted rahd, These separate di-epve pricerses tl. rough B te keandd R search uf disfering auteryy fkes ly evitailg. e! huthera, whn rinited PAchof ryven disability." h in the pirpase R nerall huspital and rea. every AU- evaluate their L : protorul thnt lavohed a inlluencen nu the man ruentyen 44 'rr thmn a yrara of nge win of parumocouinsi.. l tueep 096t t anl 1nhis. The P determine if paeu for casen atarted atch with the with disalility esista in girts" pataoin somie workers withent asprrittdd descriptiousof the lungn = hen Tir el ere waa any mention of 8 wive alnormulities pi.ement, parenchymal nedul . Ni.n Palients Studiod and Methods rl. er any hlstury of mining. the ti. nt'n clinical chart wae I". eranited.. frum lennakania and West data were evt.ce! A ginia, Vir- € - a as inrluded in the Thir:y-one had ulway mined nf rtudy 55 d unly Pat- * trcupation: espusare crd. 1 of somthwe.tern speein. minen L.a : Pennyhkania ur in tu: irmud hy a - jwheidd nevrhy nerth-rn W.. Vir.i..i. TL. 1: "aiil hnd releise other 4i han alwayy min d highrr. in" Irbypdam tin iiinin rmaiin wa+ anhtinndd. (lrrun - No 2 P h # N H A Drll 2 223 PUBLICATIONS 027050
Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one patient to another. bituminous coal, roentgenographic found to correlate well measurements ol € the volume of nodules. and (2) the silica (silicon dioxide)and macules and nodules. recognition of emphysema and which appear to be most closoly correlated miners no with emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspnea in addition with silica and collagen,
process but a
In B study of 77 miners of with quantitative. postmorlem anatorni pulmonory dust macules and collagen content of dust Unfertunately. there was poor rocntgenop/aphic chronic cor pulmoraal,, lle tnudisorciers wilh dyspnca. A munber of ern, lo dust macules
roentgenographic évidence of pneumoconiosis had romm 107 to 4G% of Appulachian chitis and hronchiolitis; coal workers have roentgeno lur, graphie evidenee of pncu- meconlonia, hut c relatiuns belween onuniomally such roontgenugrephie abnormalitics. early stagee.. Theau dificulties L.ung is not R single disense but a composite uf mnltiple disorders, cach of which may vary in inridence gruphie aren, exort posure, and apparent individual sus- ceptibility." These multiple din. Fem d hygnn ni nf Cniser.il Cullye 4 * 4 a I.. ray Krpte - : r M. : 1.. 3 s 2 Cvaier. Hle du 2 tou (be Sarps) vwvr Apral 10, 1972 . Vol 220,
panlobular, and emphysema: und (3) prob of the current sully In prores Another aim is tu moconiunis
eymptoms, and bern dificult ably arie workers' and
physical findinge huve appear to make to make, especially in lions to from the faet that roal individoal pneummeoniosis r"black ographic feature neverity, dupendent upon gro entgenographic
occupatiunal ex
ordes. indude(llthe primary ennt lust Putiruty.-The patient were 77 un- nr - informatinn Hanty Sledrcal a hivt. Penn..hunis State lew-rank high-volatib qual i emuniie er unel In
macule; (2) ailivuris, (a) chrunie liaan derground miners nf hitumiiouu cnal le anl uther eneernning n.
10346287
