-
SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE SICK BULLDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H. complaints associased with the sick building syndrome
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
et al. (1987) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire The symptoms were more commoa .B buikd.
In a cross-sectional invesngarion in one building. office buildings built over the last 06 years with a validased were measured 8 e linear analog scale questionnaire. du where the ventilation system abso provided cooling and Ar the same time, the micro-environmen (environmental humidification. irreppcciiv of the age of the buildings. A charactericric in the breathing zone i chan area direct relationship berween the level of complaimss and air samples) u characterized by measuring temperenure, quality parameter was not described. Skov et a (1987) ex- relacive humidiry, respirable suspended parriculases, car. amined indoor air quality symptoms 9 14 moder I bon dioride, noise level, lighaing insensiry, relacive hur town halls and 1 older control buildings. A E ol symp midiry, and airflow. No relarionship a seen benween tom was related o1 "Beecing" factor (carpets, upholserr.. che degree of symptoms and age, educacion. or duration and horizontal surfaces) cad the "macro-molecular compo of employment e the building or aime spent in the budld. nent" of dust. They also demonstrated . relationship berween hvn on . daily basis. Staristically, complaines were the number of houn spent photocopying and using carbonles significandly more frequent among smoking men. Envi- copy paper and the level of complaints. Ocher srudies have ronmenial characseristics associased 1 che increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et a 1985) complaint levels in this group included decreased airflow and prychodynamic factor (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute models, chere wad an association benween respirable pu- cause of complaints 9e the sick building syndrome b - pended particulases and the levels of boch mucons mcm- suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et brane and syssemic complaints. Sarisfaction wish the al. (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. thermal environment as predicted by percepcion of 1 ferences .s the concentrations of enviroamental pollutants R nor deeart contribute a che degree of sympeoms, berween rooms ls a mechanically and a naturalyy ventileted although regression models R I dhar complaines building. They studied the rooms with the I compi were nor independent of thermal paramesers. Lighaing rates and used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did I insensiry a also associated 1 complaines. I strate . relationship berween symptoms and boch aree - mudies of the - building syndrome should examine ples measuring dust and . "macro-molecular" traction. again
a
velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended i to indoor air quality complaints
riculases 1 dry-bulb semperanure. In regression
Several studies have artempted to identify the actual
mulaiple exponures simultaneouslyy and include prycho in area samples. L measures 9 idensify predictors of complaints in
Area samples is buildings may Dot x representative of the exposures . different points in single rooms. Physical characteristics soch a windows and partitions, computers. and shetving may infuence air currents. Radiane heat may different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroo
indoor - INTRODICCION
Complaints sermed the i building syndrome" have lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally. mont a led to numerous investigations in the last i5 year.. They are hutants resuh from point sources, or they will be diluted a thought to occur primarily a newty constructed odice I subject a farther removed from the source. A micro 4 ings and, at least in the pest, were thought to be doe to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very wide variety of causes have been identifed .s specific settings, meat of building. le addition. all applied occupational and inctuding inadequate temperature and relative bumidiry 8 environmental health rescarch that attempes to relate dose to trol, noise, lighting. vibration. volatile organic compounds heakhh effects - from the probiem that I a penerally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, eaviroamental sobecco measured e several points in time and then extrapolated to smoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decades spent and contaminated air and boiler I Bbers released * most heakth effects are measured as a 4 resuk of from duct linings. and ofice machine offgases and odor these chronic exposures Where the variability of sampling < proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to hour, such . strategy must fail. (Robertson e al. 1985) was unable to identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-qualiry parameters in the micro wet-bulb globe temperature, dry-bulb temperature (semper environment and set these characteristics in relation o a ature). relative humidity. air velocity, formaldehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints a . given point in I This itive or nepative ions between several rooms in . building report presents resules of cromssectional investigation of with natural and a building with mechanical vencilacion, problem building using - self-administered. linear analog. where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom E I . Amaun Prolesor of Medicine und ol Induscrial and Emviroamental Heahh Scences at the Univeruty of Peesburgh Schoob of Medicine and Publc Heahh. P. Celeegy a Direcior. Environmental Heahh and Salery. Camepic-Melloon Univeruiy.. Pirtsburgh. PA.
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem,
(Kreiss and Hodpson 1984; Hodgson and Kreiss 1986). marily oi mechanical ventilation. A i proup of authon
results h preater than the difference l average samples, and No investigations in a peer-reviewed literature have
3us
