Puu pVE
Carcinogenesis vul 15 mu a pp.2721-2725, rool
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-@-ppriddl)-1-butandne and benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
C3420
chemopreventive agents
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Heeahhh Foundation. Valhalla, NY 10595. USA
models examined to date (2). BaP is a protorype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the A/ mouse because previous
The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemopreventive ngents agninst lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas ace induced lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression 01 by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-l-(3-pyy 1)-1-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of Cemale A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastric adcaud (i.g-) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of intraperitoneal injection (l.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis Aq NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diechylnitrosamine and 17.12-dimehhy-benibenz(alanthracene (9,10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the AJ mouse to evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The i.g. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung lumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than l.p. administration, (4,11,12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse car be replicated because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injectionsite and associated mortality. A dose response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung turno induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/l mouse and F344 rai (11,13) mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens This may not he realistic with respect o1 tobacco of 24 jumol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (I). The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important Comparisons of NNK and BaP given Individuatly showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke a1. when given by the i.g. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP. The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 jmol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. in addition. the model should he relatively rapid and subdoses i.g., with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive Therefore. we exomined tumor yields obtained dosing. This regimen induced 10.524.4 lung adenomas/ upon trentment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combinntion of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethylisothiocyanate,, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tuioo formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP this study provlde a convenlent model for assessing the NNK was synthesized in the American Healeh Foundacion Organie Synchesis efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. lts purity wat established l4 HPLC as >997. BaP (93% purity), Our goal im this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirt containing s corn oil. a previously 2 play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups cf 15 as sammarized in Table 1 At ane 7 weeks. each mouse was kers: auouvinq-1-QApu.d--)-1-(owAuussnyuuaagouu.. (NNK") treated by imraperitoneal (ip.) injection or by intragastric gavage - with and benzolalpyrene (BaP) € NNK is A potent pulmonary the appropriate chemieal in 0. ml cononseed oil. NNK and BaP were both carcinogen with organospecificiit for the lung im all rodent dissolved in the 0.1 E used for treatment Injections and gavages were carried R *Abbroviations: NNK. Admmhhyliroommmnoo..C.pydddilllbuumnn individunt dese war cae eeighhh of the cotal. Equimolar doses of NNK and BaP, benzole)pyrene: PEITC, phenethyl isorhiocyanale: BITC, benzyl BaP were wsed in most of ihe combination groups, because the emounts of
which these on) tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
Most previous studies in the A/ mouse have examined We sought to develop a model which could be used o1
5.92 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P v 0.001) and completely inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
BITC (989 purity) and PEITC (93% purity) were abtained from the Aldrich Chemical Cempany (Malwaukee. wi Cottonseed oll was purchased fonm Fermale A/ mice. age > weeks were obtoined from The Jackson Laborarory (Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the The desiga of the bioassay i illustrated a Figure 1 A mice were divided out for & consecurive werks. The toual doses aue siven in Tuble L Each NNK and sotal carcinogenie polycyelic hydrocarbons in tohaceo smoke are
Sigma Chemical Ce (S: Louis, MO).
Introduction to
agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
isothiocyanaie, P intriperitoneal, e introgautric gavage.
o Oxford Unverrity Press
2721
