100 East a Avanue Ncw York, Nove York 10028 Telophone (212) C22-6300
Foundation
OFFICERS AND BOARD CF TAUSTEES David J Mahoney, Chairman Pres.dent Nortn Simon, Inc. Emest L Wynder, M.D., President Thomas J. Ross, 4 Sacratary Vice Presiden: Amarican Airlines, ine. Warner o Cosgrova, Jr. Treasurer Manaçing Partner Shieics L Company Trustees: Louis V. Aronsen, = Prosident Ronsen Corporation Mrs. Chanes A Dana Frederie C. Dacker Presicent Dacker Communications, Inc. Walter Senior E. Panner Harson Peat, Marwick, Mitchell - Ca. Georse James, M.D, Dean The iunoy Sinai Schoel of Medicine waliam J. Levin Chairman of the Soard Levitt & Sons, inc. G. Witiam Mcore Presicent Fielderest Milis, Inc. Josesh M. Murtha President Sandgran & Murha, Ine. Maxwall Roban R. M. Pauley Rabb Partner Stroock & Stroock 4 Lavan David L Davies. Erecutive Vice Presicant Javits a Javits General Counsel
American Health
July 7, 1970
G. F. Todd, Esq. Tobacco Research Council Glen House, Stag Place London, S.W.1 England
Dear Mr. Todd:
In recent talks with Dr. Carl G. Baker, Director of the National Cancer Institute, the desirability of forming an international study group concerned with research into tobacco and health problems behalf of your organization to participate in this The proceedings will aim at providing the relatively few active investigators in tobacco and health research programs with an opportunity to discuss freely current and future research programs with the intent of reaching common objectives nore quickly. The dnozb will be composed of investigators primarily involved in tobacco and health research oriented towards producing less harmful smoking products. The partici- pants must be both willing and able to share with other investigators what is being learned from their current activities and openly discuss plans for future research in the field. It is thought that by bringing such a group of experts together to review ongoing studies and to plan future investigations jointly less harmful tobacco products will be available sooner and costly research projects will not be duplicated unneces- sarily. The meetings would be held at yearly intervals with the different organizations acting as host.
letter
invite on you
was discussed. This
is to
information and study group.
- . 4
