LOS ANGELES TI-ES Los Angeles, California October 20, 1954 nn been proved. lale 1'niversity
hasei uudn the premise that hination n a particular type annetion hetw een riea in each of - mree categories ret smokingand disesse ha has alrcady produced a sale Might Take Six Months one it is. so all can be made Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. 10 not, the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Carence Cnok Litte,, complete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad- date, said tha: "some AES we visnry board and seientific di. should wait for more defini rector o the Toharro Indus- ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would nne hae said just what the de. produre some nf "the defni finitive evidence woud be." tive eviderce" to wechh Dr He sadd he "took issue" with Hammond referred. In nie alk in the Ameriran "We wiil tackle simultan system was more important, line of the industrv's researeh migh: prove surcessful in six do not have today The months, wirh kuck. he said. menta! evidence that t - per-
cigarette If so. scientific re- search should prove which should find one, "since ple like to smoke eigarettes. trv Rescarch Committee, de- seribed the nutlines nf stud- Tackle Unknowns
Expert Calls Safe' Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming
for
atatistician
-oad
tive evidence before develop-
NEW YORK. Ort. 19 aLP) this viewnoint.
The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eously many of the unknowns arette smoking with b ot h Hammond said the relation- in this feld of tobacen 1se in lung cancer and heart dis. ship nf rigarette smoking to relation to human health. te case is "overw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitive once about developing "a safe health, than the relationshin findings in ue area where cigarette a a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to much suggesaive work has cal scientist told the annual find e. safe cigarette" from been done. The program nf meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recognizes tha: aE e tie advisory board of the There are various types of garding the cause And efeet Tobacco Industry Research tnhacen, there are varinus relationshrp hetween rcv rom- Cummittee announced some of types of fiterr, and there are mental factors, includ n - te details nt Es seieatifie re- varioua terhn'gues n! curing The mo important srarch program 1 hich is tobaren, he sair, and e may aet up was # dirert ccdyy prneect of
Cancer
experi
Society today. At the same time the scien-
Outlines Deseribed
mit scientific eonci:sions PA. smokire and lune cancer lung cancer case: 1 10 medical centers in he : n L ed States and Canada,
he thar some fortuntrrss com- current LOs ANGELES EXAMINER los Ange. les, California October 20, 1954
It will include numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokers, se well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. à apecirie research grants, financed the will be announced later.
HEALTH STUDY NO
TOBACCO NEW YORK. Oct. 19-- $ < broad sbx point study seek Ing knowledge whether eigarets or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards wAs announced today. It in the first announcement of big research program headed by the selentifie ad. visory board of the Tobacco In. dustry Research Committee
à TIRC,
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
