- Chroe Dls Vol. 38. No. 1. PP 17-26. 1985
Priased in Great Britai All rights reserved

0021.9681 85 53 8 0m
Copyright C 198S Pergamon Press Lid

PSYCHOSOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ADOLESCENT
SMOKERS BEFORE THEY STARTED SMOKING:
EVIDENCE OF SELF-SELECTION
A PROSPECTIVE STUDY
CARL C. SELTZER and FRANK w. OECHSLI
Peabody Muscum. Harvard University. Cambridge. MA 02138 and the Child Health and
Development Studics, School of Public Hcalth, University of California. Berkckyy.

CA 94720, U.S.A.
(Recrired in rerised form 17 dagust 1984)

Abstract Evidence of noncomparability of self-formed smoker and nonsmoker groups of
adolescents from the Child Health and Development Studies of ihe University of Califomia.
Berkeley. wai found S a study of antecedent psychosocial characteristics lobserved at age 10)
before the adoption of the smoking habit. With possible confounding factors controlled, eventual
smokers showed significantly greater prevalence than nonsmokers of Type A personality traits.
euraversion psychoticism. anger. and restless sleep. Eventual smokers were lower in socio-
econ omic datus than nonsmokers. and alse exhibited significantly lower mean scrre for the
Raven Progressive Matrices and Peabody Picture Vocabulary lesis For each trait. the trends of
the tatal were consistent in boys and girls Since many of these traits are shown to "track into
adult lile where they are then related to coronary hear discase. the role of self-sclection requires
further consideration in causal inferences ahout smoking und coronary hear discase.

INTRODUCTION

Iv RECENT years. many published studies have shown an association that suggests a role
for psychosocial factors in the pathogenesis of CHD [I. 21. In the Framingham Study.
univariate and multivariate anulyses showed a positive relationship of certain psycho-
social factors to CHD and also to cigurette smoking [3- 5]. The pervasive question of
temporal precedence and a priori self-selection still requires further clarification. however.
In the absence of controlled experiments. the effects of cigarette smoking on health have
been inferred from observational studies that compare persons who smoke with
nonsmokers. la these comparisons. the disease outcomes are assumed to occur in cohorts
of smokers and nonsmokers who were initially similar in all relevant characteristics except
for the difference in smoking habit. Very little evidence has been available. however. to
The unique data of the Child Heaith and Development Studies (CHDS) of the
University of Califomia. Berkeley, provide un opportunity to check this assumption by
examining antecedent characteristics associated with teenage smoking [6-8]. The CHDS
is a prospective investigation of children from birth to late adolescence At various stages
of their development, the children were examined sE to their biological. social. and
in this report. we have analyzed the antecedent psychosocial characteristics of a large
cohort of boys and girls before some of them later began cigarette smoking as teenagers
Reprint requests should he addressed to: Frank w. Oechsli, Child Health and Development Studies,
This project was supported ig Grant 1447 from the Peabody Muscum Harvard Lniversity

verify this assumption.

personality status, as well as environmental and familial influences.

2131 University Ave.. Berkelev, CA 94704, = :

8 34/1-

17