BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
Area.stores
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For the Delly Camera nors. kids. ka,
referring to the Increased enforce- Auguad fur selling tobacco to. ml tried t Anq. Uli cigarelles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky enoush.to nesses this week during 8 crack. get'cagght e suec summons down on selling cigarettes 01 mi- to appoar ut court. The maximum The sting. conducted on the eve horis a 00ZS fine. of. the American Cancer Soclety's The Supa involved two tcams. Great American Smokeout, was In- Each included u uniformed oocer.. tended to educate clerks that it's il- a piain çlothes ouncer. and twn legal to sell tobacco producte to Fairviow High School sirts, who Police. targeted Ras stations, -005 .S parenis signed a waiver al- vénience, drug, grocery and dis. lowing them to Lakc partin.thc.op "aa has never beeri enforced, said The Juvenlles wero told not to Jopinog Police Olficer Mary Man plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "were letting the stores know had to show identification.
Count "sams mnun, recently. the eratlon. thie ic going to happen," ehc sald,
the cigarettes. and, if asked. they (Sce BOULDER Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, pegan 01 cry 28uh SL, one of the girls asked when she was issleed a Sum the cashier for a pack of Mart mons. ous raid phe was a stur boro Lights. Oflcer Rob Hauke- dent and couldn" afordd tne ness, In plain clothes, poops In court costs. HAukeness poun "01, -inehhhhind her to witnece thç 9108y02 her, saying she -ino A placard near the cash regis. the District Attomey to do com ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice instead of paying A clerk asked tn see some identifi The clerka, not the store own: cation. Thc buyer produced lier ert or manugers, have to pay the. she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it to uusuund cd at the license, act i down on stores or clerks, she said. "Al-: the counter. and sold her the though, when you scc clerks Afer they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted ist stepped Jn and identified him slorps and clerks Hl bur four eelf 0s o police officer. Manka recelved summonses. came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wock's Iranm., I see them ask for an year. The firs sting. conducted E I think they're going to 2 in Scptember, targeted 16 stores fuse the cale," Haukeness sald. und SI clerks received Rum
(From Page 1C)
The clerk at Colony Market,
transaction.
Atqugaad work out a deal-with.
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, driver's license, which showed court costs.
eigarettes. summons.
ing, you miggh think otherwise 1221 - wax the. operation secund tobacco sale stine this:
"Bul they never do."
monses,
0949901F02
