True-Taise Questions en the Chenistry and Psychophyplology of Odor end Flevor l H Sone modern workers suggeat that accurate mensurenent of vlbrationa! frequency (in the far infrared, for exanple) of ww unknown odorant will permit prediction of ts quallty nnd intensity. T No elenental substance, not even halldes or ozone hos eny odor; Instead they react with the nucose forning new products which are sme lled; 2 T. J Sone odorants have steric or vibrational propertles which force the cone luslon : they are odor less when they are not I1. - Present evldence strongly suggests thet different parts of the ollactory receptor ares, Ilke the retina In the eye, are qua ilty-spocific. T Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor 4 No one yet has a -re clue as to the critical relation between the molecule 0nd the receptor which pernits en odor perception, T The greater the secretion rate of eucous or selive, the a gher their 'nd and both Ho and tomperature influence the quallty of sensation in the 1I1. T The ideal instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sane quantitative range as doen an 8 1 or human sub ject. 1 3 Such en Ideat detector has not heen developed. he observers with head In fixed position cen Aq virtue of the twe Indoponder.t nostriis easliy discern stereo suall effects, 1.e. they can tell whother nis odor on ls et the right or left hand, vuch 6 one uses his two cars in locating the source of a sound. T For certaln musk-i ike compounds, forty molecules ar sufficlent to trigger 4 humon olfact ory response. v. 4 Adaptation oi one olfactory unb lity does not significantly reduce sensitivity to eny other dissiel lar quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to ell sinl ler quelities. T By enploying a simiierities nethod of comparing qualitles, one can now obtain identity nnd degrees of difference without recourse to trohle- vi. - Hunger lowers thresholds slight ly to some food quailties but not for 1 et le now possible to identify the intensity and quality of a certain given stinull sieply by expert examination of the electrophysiological record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons. T Electrical stimulation of taste in nan yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkalind" quality, T 5 Direct electrica stimulatlon of the olfactory senso han successfully accompilshed. vil. T 5 Although total anosela is rore la humans and ageus le even rarer, there ls evidence that in analogy to color vision deficiences, some people are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while having normal sensitivity to others. T Toplcal anesthetics applled to the tongue ahe that dl fferent quelities 1 Certain endocrine dlsease entitles nake : possible for Bomo people quire sensitively to "snell" such "odor less" substances es sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to normal by manipulation of endocrine levels. T 4 onenopause wonen at the lime of ovulation fInd certain odors extrenely disegreeable whlle at other lnes In the menstrun cycle these some edors
sone elenents possess taste.
surface In order to be smel lled.
chemicn! senses.
Iv.
sone vor ds. others.
yer beon
50
of taste disappear at different rates.
they will Judge quite pleasant,
