NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A to woo Dade campaign County teenagers away from smoking ls under way bere as part of . nation-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groupe, the society hopes to persuade . large pro- portion of the nation's young people that amoking may Jead Key urapon in the m palgn, le hire strip detalling a ca againet tobacen, It hur already I shown le 5 enth grnders in 15 schools dn educationa televiaion, and wIl 1 brnadcant tn minth gradn arience students in the The se enth-grade program, directed è teacher Bill Evans, inchuded a panel discussion 5 which students directed ques. tiona at Dr. Francis N. Cooke, representing the society. * Teachers I have talked to agree that although smoking la not - serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu. dents are approaching the age when the problem will be. faced," Evane sad. 1 value a the nimstrips E * glvee studenta logical argumenn with whleh ithey eenld I te : h . when encouraged by th eir atrele et friende, he edded The him strip la also being ahiwnn - to senior : achool in the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October 9, 1960
Education
Cuts Fag
Youth Habits
S
American eigaret spoking can be reduced * per cent through teenage education program . * high schools. These statistics were presenled Saturday b Walter G. James, director ol publie education for the American Cancer Society, here lor the Florida Division, ACS, annual meeting I ssid a - m program : directed at leenagers as * I fer "curbing eancer becsme d the soceety's esavietion that smoking l i e fstal lung a proepects of reducing cigaret mmoking by one-fifth were pbonn S - pilot program conducted with 27.000 high achool students e Purtland, Ore, 1 ade a Sbndents t parents 1 wne I keey lo 1. Smoking increased .s the successive S school grades. Among boys Sumplpnund is the Oregon murvey, 143 pes cent smoked a1 freshmen. 15.2 per cent as sopbemores. 31.1 per eent as juniars, end s54 - i A correspond- Su ligures for girt stodenta were 4 per A 10.6 per cent, 1 or Ihe students, 2s per cen o the boys mmoknd regularty at lenst ence ! a 4 116 per cent ol the girte 4 Education programs againat smoking reduced the mumber o new umokers 1 boys from u per cent to 1.7 k cent. and beginning girl mooer from 1.4 le 1. PROGRAM EFFECTIVE i mid Ohe figures projected ever - four-year peried indicaled that R per eent P high sehool etudents could be deterred from Supoor through the ACS educational progrmm A stody, x i revealed that the moet effactive approach was in showing the long term ellect  moting. leaving the decision s a E + C Least ellective, he related vu F ammle instruction not . 1 2 part a ib anti-mmoling education E a ACS 2 devised h Aim strip phuttrtiigg allect a b habit for rcreening E 1 school clasarooin.. -
to cancer.
at the Lagu. Mar Hotel cancer. domure
à
spring.
- a dgaret pabit
a per cent and * per rent.
per cent
1. E-
NETIN
20/00a2686
