E/u/PP

JAT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
New 'erk Timer Serve

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars -
made cigarettes last year, ringing became an issue even in recent pack (98rs) compared with 22

TAIPEI The Mariboro cow. up sales of 611$ million. la '9861 trade talks between the United New Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for
boy in his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Staics and Taiwan. Wang Chien. pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ging from his mouth, has come oo eign cigarettes Dow hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis
town. His picture adoms kiocks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs. registered * ing Ss Japan are more liberal. Com-
guitar-playing jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted give out goto free cigarettes and gifu,, an aggressive campaign Television
This frenetic, fast-growing na- cigarette exporis last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lewed in the United Suates in 1971.
tioe of nearly 20 million people ly because both Tawan and Japan school students - 12, i3 years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
mmoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-suanding restrictions. are now smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry label that,
year and for the first time, E According lo the Brown & Wil rette companies promote cigareties roughly translated, says, "For the
rubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exports of like that? Ic's O.K. to have them sake of health don't smoke loo
made .9 America, nol Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" warning much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy $16 billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $i uomg in new sales. the. United States. But those people mandaied in the United States.
Waccurers have essentially intro In. Japan, which has . population are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe oompaniea saY Amencan

and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 1 strong protest.

panies can advertise on TY after

oul this city, next to posters 2 . peroeni.
a of Winston cigarettes.

KayL. amusemen places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

for most o the grownh 5s American he said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-

of 120 million and where people

duced cigarette advertising to the
tbe American companies of entic
ing teen-agers o) unke dn moking..
* charge the American companies
operation that had monopolized percent by 1992.
the cigarette market bad not adver-
tised, altbough =t does now,
The government agreed to allow
.proarure from Washingion. In the alcohol.
year since stiff restrictions on for.
8 cigarettes were dropped.
have soared, generating much-
ufacturens e - time when sales in
the Unitod States are down
and tbe number ol anti-smoking
laws is way 'dn

"uru . huran being, you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan

ialand, and that has created furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes R year. that.
Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled E

not o1 much because of the adver-
tising A because they are of better
quality and Laste beiter. American
with the way ure cigarettes are mmde of blended to-
and bacco and have less Lar than Tai-

uhe past year. The market share & American cigarette manufactur-
in
American cigarettes increased 6 E vigorously deny there any-
more than percent last year, thing wrong
they
from 3 percent in 1986, and the promoting their products s4y
Department of Agriculture pre . ihey have no plans to change their wancse cigarettos,
They are not allowed to advertise
television newapapers Nor
Taiwan officials say tbey resent lo
or ln
American pressure to open their have they pusbed sodo so, they say.
markets to producta that éndanger They can advertise only througb
6 small stores where cigarettes are
sold, a well a
sales "This really burts our feelings,
through promo
said Jaw Shau-kong a
tions. Cigarette manulacturers may
zines, ol whoec droulatioo acl-
cach
export to Taiwan? Younger
dom cxooods 200,000.
and females are
a loi
Before last
forcign ciga-
smoking
year,
parpl
young attractive
oent of tbe market Taiwan im-
poo-v0a-- girla
immona..
A rerult, imported aigaretti coet

10

which are not

boty deny.

The goveramecl-adminiisted dicts that it could prow to S1 to 20 sales pitch.

bleaded.

.others into the busnees oaly under people's health. like cigarettes and posien hung near cigarette racks or
. American cigarettes in Taiwan M.. tbe Uniled Suses docs legisiator. not en- jaloo place 120 ade - year in maga-

peadod growth for American man- courage its people to smoke, why

way

causc of American ada. They hire retuo accounted for lcas than per-
wearing short skirts 60 pive "e cit. posed strict quotas on foreign
and then it becomes A babit. It's cigaretter and imposed stim tariffs.

According to the U.S. Depart- arettes free in nightclube. k's 3 cigarettes, banned import at tbe
mbett ol Agriculture, people in Tal- difficult lor young boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenued to sell

04+/9000SZ

.
à