H K#2223022
Life Sciences Vol. 15. -dd 1291-1300 Pr inted in the E
Perganon Press
A B0LI5 R BPm S PYREN BY KECROSOHES FRON T or PRECALAN ANp TITAL HAEE Irene T. Wang, Ronald R. Ra smunsen, and T. Timothy Crocker* Cancer Research Institute, Untveraity of California, San Prancisco, and Depart- ment of Community and mnvironmenaal Medieine, Univereity of California, Irvine". (Received in final form 26 August 1974 Sumarry Pretreatnent of hansters vith benzo (a)pyrene (BaP) greatly increased the s vitre metabol iue of het è lung alerosonns fron prognant haur eter : and I lewe effect on the metaboli 4 of E A 11ver atere- momos. € produetion of various matabnlitar of BaP E lune niere- sonos wa inereaned to different extentar 3-hydroxy-BAP (3-CH-BAP) wan one of the naeer sataboliten the netabolic yielde of 9,10- dihydrrodihydoowy-aa (9,10-diol) and 7,8-diol vere Incrensed wore than thee of the . S-diel. tn the chee ef 1iver mierosomeo, only uhe yielde of 9,10-diol and 7,8-diol wara incranend ovar the control levels, The presence of eyclohexene oxide Ln the incuba tion mix- tures decressed the production of the diole. Basal-level eneyme aetivie Le in placental, fetal 1iver, and fetal ekin microsome in mstaholisies hP vere very low. Pretreatment af pregmant hane ters with : indaced MaP-netabolizing enzymes 5 fotal ieree 2-3 fold. Danso(alpyrene (DaP1 le . carcincger and environmental cont ant that 5 found in coal tar. aineral o1l, car exhaust, tohacco smoke. . had foode, ete. à In vitro sradien showed thae netabolie activation of Bar le required for ita intarartin vith proteine and nuclele acide (2,3) Carller studien wih rat 1iver preparations 3 and harater liver micron (6,7) showed that Bar le meta elieed mainly 8 phenolie and dihydredihydrowy (dioll derivativee, and 9 quinones whinh are enzymatie or air owidation peoducte of unstable phenolie metabolitau is'e) a vell an some unidentified more polar matabolites. The reta olies ef Rat han generally been neamred h the production of J-hydroxyy Ber (3-OR-RAP) which Je aften a of the major metaho iee in vitro (3). 3-OH- DAP ie toric te aultured calle (9). hut it shove verr lirtle interaction vi th DBA in vitro (6) end has not been shown t be carcinocenic. On the other hand, K-regton epowides ef velat polycyelie aronatic hylrocartons TAN
to cell-
1295
