CR auh

CELL REGULATION, Vol. 2, 373-381, May 1991

Activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors
inhibits cell cycle progression of small cell

lung carcinoma

Carol L. Williams and Vanda A. Lennon
Departments of Laboratory Medicine
and Pathology, Immunology, and Neurology
Mayo Clinic and Foundation
Rochester, Minnesota 55905

model for studying the dysregulation of cell cy-
cle progression. This highly metastatic tumor
accounts for 25-30% of all lung cancers and
causes >25 000 deaths annually in the United
States (Birrer and Minna, 1989). SCLC cells ex-
press receptors for several autocrine growth
factors, including gastrin-releasing peptide
(GRP, homologous to amphibian bombesin)
(Cuttitta et al., 1985; Carney et al, 1987), insulin-
like growth factor-l (IGF-I) (Macauly et al.,
Nakanishi et al., 1988b), and a transferrin-like
molecule (Nakanishi et al., 1988a; Vostrejs et
al., 1988). Activation of these receptors gen-
erates different intracellular second messen-
gers, which must converge on a common point
proliferation.
in addition to receptors for
factors, some SCLC cell lines express musca-
rinic (Sorenson et al., 1983; Cunningham et al.,
1985; Williams and Lennon, 1990a) and nicotinic
acetylcholine receptors (Maneckjee and Minna,
1990). The ability of acetylcholine receptors to
regulate cell proliferation has recently been
recognized (Conklin et al., 1988; Ashkenaz et
on our finding that activation of M, muscarinic
drolysis of phosphoinositides (PI) and inhibits
voltage-gated Ca? channel activity .n SCLC
cells, we proposed that mACHR activation may
affect SCLC proliferation (Williams and Lennon,
1990a). We report here that mAChR activation
inhibits DNA synthesis induced by serum, bom-
besin, insulin, or IGF-I in SCLC cells. mACHR
agonists arrest SCLC cells in both S and G2/M
phases of the cell cycle. mACHR activation ap-
pears to disrupt a common event induced by
different growth factors, which follows signal
transduction by growth factor receptors.
mACHR activation decreases DNA synthesis
Carbachol decreases "H-thymidine uptake by
cells cultured in serum (Figure 1). This inhibition

We prevlousty reported that activation of musca-
rinlc acetylcholine receptors (mACHR] of M, subtype
hydrolysis of phosphoinositides and inhibits
voltage-gated à channel activity in small cell lung
carcinoma (SCLC) cells. We now report that mACHR
activation couses exponentially growing SCLC cells
to arrest in S and G,/M phases of the cell cycle,
concomitant with B decrease In DNA synthesis. Cell
cycle progression and DNA synthesis
down-regulated. In serum-starved
SCLCcells, mACHR activation inhibits DNA synthe-
sis Induced by serum, bombesin, insulin, or insulin-
like growth factor-1. The finding that DNA synthesis
is inhibited even when mACHR are activated after
exposure of cells to growth factors indicates that
decreased signal transduction by growth factor re-
ceptors le not the mechanism of mACHR-mediated
growth inhibition. Our data suggest that mACHR
activation disrupts a common event that le induced

causes

1988;

to induce SCLC

resume
when

are
mACHR

peptide growth

al., 1989;

and Minna, 1990). Based

Maneckjee

by different growth factors and le fundamental for acetylcholine receptors (MAChR) causes hy-

cell cycle progression.
Introduction

In normal cells, the transition from proliferation
to terminal differentiation is" marked by with-
drawal from the cell cycle and an inability to
reenter the cycle in response to growth factors.
Transformed cells do not undergo this transi-
tion, but constitutively remain in the cell cycle;
the regulation of cell cycle progression is dis-
rupted (Heldin and Westermark, 1984; Wein-
stein, 1987; Kraus et al., 1988). Small cell lung
carcinoma (SCLC)' provides a clinically relevant
Abbreviations: GRP, gastrin-releesing peptide; ICse, half-
factor-1; mACHR, muscarinic acetylcholine receptors; PBS,
phosphate-buffered saline; PI. phosphoinositides; SCLC,
e 1991 by The American Society for Cell Biology

Results

maximal inhibitory concentration; IGF-I, insulin-like growth by cells growing exponentially in serum

small cell lung carcinoma.

373