HKR2228112 SANIA RAK E . 2 :
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIECO
u
1 a n
1 . 2 .. 5 - ISPARTME / : w*w January 3, 1977 Dr. William H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Rescarch roundation 715 Muir Lands Visto Hay La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. Cishman: and Salk.
1 5 a IL 2
e
We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of Lhe La Jolla resch rch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the la Jolla Cancer Resezrch Founr ation and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establisnment of E focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmenta prublems is partizularly ieely. It will be 0 oral potential inportance for pulling tcgetter work, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, characteriztaion and doterninatiio of the sionificance of huraan oncodevelopmenntal antigens such as alphafetuprotein and carcinoembryonic antiuens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship of increased serui concentrations of AFP to preralignant lesions or carcinogen exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model svsters clearly derion- strate tne t anicals pasodxa to hepatocarcinoyens have elevated serum AFP concen- trations prier to developrant of sslionant tumers. It is hoped that systeratic study of hunan scra frum differect auurces vill determinc if serus AFP concun- In addition. the role of env rennental factors such as hormonal influences on the production of oncodevelopmenta gene pri-k can be further explored in different sy: Lens. Such data inplic Lhat (he prod;u tion of ohcoczvelopmental gene product, by tunor ceils is net a fixed property of a given tumor but is We look foncard to vorking with ycu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the important subjeri of oncodeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatoc.rrcinoge exposure.
subject to enviroumental controls.
expression. Best regards, Stewart Sell, H.D. Professor SS/nb
