eCopyright 1987 by The Humana Press Inc. All rights of amv nature. whatsoever, reserved. 0163-4984/77/3000-00199003.00
Applications of Neutron Activation Analysis to the Study of Age-Related
Neurological Diseases
W. D. EHMANN, : W. R. MARKESBERY,234 E. J. KASARSKIS,2 D. E. VANCE, S. S. KHARE, J. D. HORD, AND Departments of 'Chemistry, "eerroloyy, 'Pathology, and "Sander Brown Research Center on Aging, University of Kentucky, Lexington,
C. M. THOMPSON' KY 40506.
ABSTRACT
Although the etiology and pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Pick's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis are still unknown, it has been suggested that perturbations in element metabolism may play a role. Even il not causative factors, these imbalances may prove to be markers that could aid in diagnosis. We have emploved a 3 quential neutron activation analysis (NAA) procedure to determine elemental concentrations 5 brain, hair, fingernails, blood, and cere- brospinal Ouid (CSF) of these patients and age-matched controls. Samples are first irradiated with accelerator-produced 14-MeV neu- trons for determination of nitrogen and phosphorus, then with reac- tor thermal neutrons for the instrumental determination of 16-18 mn-- nor and trace elements, and, finally, reacfor-irradiatee again, followed by a rapid radiochemical separation procedure (RNAA) to determine four additional elements. Major advantages of NAA are: (1) its simultaneous multielement capability; (2) the relative freedom from reagent and laboratory contamination; (3) the absence of major matrix effects; and (4) an adequate sensitivity for most elements of in- terest. Ranges of concentrations by INAA and RNAA in selected con- trol tissues and interelement correlations in control brain are -aud sented to illustrate results obtained by the procedure. Longitudinal studies of tissues from Alzhcimer's disease (AD) and amyotrophic lat- "Author to whom all correspondence and reprint requests should be addressed.
eral sclerosis (ALS) patients are still im progress.
Biological Trace Element Rescarch
19
Vol 13 1987
