WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRIBUNE D. 25,605 S. 49,326 WACO METEOPOLITAN AREA MAR 9 i963
FC Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard- Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission fron going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it does not scem right or logical that ono medium of advertising be furbidden the producer w hilc newspapors, magazines, billboards and cou ntc T displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC said it is proposirg to refuse licenses o) broadcasters who carry cigarette advertisice because of evidence that smoking is injuriour to health and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals to do es they please s0 long as lhcy don't harm another. Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that 1 you don't mention something. maybe it won't Congressman Paul Rogers, l-lorida Democret, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Con- merce Committce, said in reference to the proposed FCC rule that the ngency had overstepped the bounds of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has any right o) tell an advertiser what he could not say in hii advertisements, Rogers said Congress will take a cluse Icok at the whole question of regulations on television and radio advortising content, nol only as to the Federal Communications Commission but in regard to Federal Trade Comunission praclices as TThe slakes involved extend beyond the business of broadcasling. They go to the heart of whe:her government burcaus Pinoys he allowed to go beyond
advertising.
Hazardous to Your Healdh."
hurt you and will disappear.
67 98221804
well.
the limits of due proccss and the law,
