LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday March 20, 1977
ALOOKAAPTSSSS
To judge by the torrent of protést - a DD has received. a sizable por- tior of the. calorie-counting public Elusive. 2s 4 logic o - law may agrees. Long accustomed to a cross seem.to the general public, medical firg: A criticism from industry pur researchers say. that. the animal 3 consumer activists, the FDA has been périments upon-which such regulato- bésteged by. citizen demands liber- decisions are basèd do have a sen ate saccharin. And moves arerffoo 7 sbler rationale- pur that they dar Cangresr 9 amend the Food, and. have addrect.beariigg. on risk 8 hu-. Drug Actey P - 1 f mans. - There'sbeen 2 remendous outcrr s true, résear acknowiedge; 14 from all:vve the country," # EDA thiftherats 'at theccnner of this fur- EFT spokesman ls Washington said: e 8 consumed eachr day the saccharin Times s lence wrrer ranges trom anguish to anger. We've. 1 - ot reughly "1,000 cans of "never been this busy." a W equivalent soit drinkc But they-con- B ban lowicaiorie ces it make ie 2 popula :Th FDA: for-its part; says it was it misieading-i not dishonest focd adcitive on he strength of what 'only doing what the. law required. sidèr to Suggest as the calorie counell bas;, happens when hundred rats and. . the law-specilically the Dela- that @ makes the resear E oifsprings eat additive in * clause inserted. in the. dirparity H . ney Congress trrelevant 8 humans. - hure doses? pod and Drug Act in 1958 says that: -People who drink one can a The Calorie Contral Council, Inc, R. ppofcccd) additive shall be 'deemed. a saccharin soit oniy drink rrun a not The trade dayai Alanta thinks argani- tobe safe E it is found after tests - ccmpprrally lower risk of cancer. But B e ai 213 million people, comes trom manufacturers R. dietrr tion of the food additives:to the collective population hazard could still .add. far full- - cancer upto several thousand cases af blac of dailars in thellast few days - The clause does.nct allaw I bal- dercaancer t 4 : a - Moreover, scientists note, rat + led the FD. to ha inisuration for its decision 8 ban evidence R cancer in hum saccharin. a the only nonnutritive- sweetener currently cn the market Javen the & IA is willing 6 admit thère's # basic difference between d. rats and human L" cne a ad in the TPA Street Journal.observed. S,1. 1 anocher : mpie of the arbitrar matrre of big E remment 4
The.Ban.on Saccharin:
9
catimn. whose $ 0,000 annual budget.d which are appropriate forthe evalua- food and drinie has spent thousandss hiduce safetyal E mrm or animal * a age newspaper ads across the coun- # ancing or as and benerit. Nar dces it' berating thc Food and Drug Ad- 1: rédiire- the- bàn tor be: based on
-
7035437
0087432
TIMN
