17
EATIN re R a H
New! Improved! Dangerous?
With More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium, Experts Fear Taric Reactions
U. l d Lasunv Serviel he 1he Feckanym Rat erance fo her 1 fee luechtine . l 0 sandi w Sollowed in vor A le hn the late altoreoo.. M - uhc m becloe chick en and . couple e vegetables topped with mongurine, knilowed ly dhl multvita BeCAVEAC min mineral nit kor nutritional invuaanee, Then while watching TV in the eveurg halreup Colag cap) A ke greum Sound pertry rensonable, ridlP Actually. depending on the brand y LUNCHH duste,, w1 $ Pam ppno net he bween 3000 and 3.000 mulliggran yru cald am sliatiicnnly mee Dhe a "oolevable Upper trane Level of 00SE miligram set br the the National Arndemg of Sdemes AFTERNOON SNACK CNAS) S mam 1 are now fortitiet with calcumm tut . has horome end eesserr bog0 syd the safety Net Ant the hus scan E DINNER tition reseurE dare concermed "An whh anything ce 1 cnn * . 1/2 cup hroccel tnpped wath pruhlem. sayn Richard Wood, chict of the Mineral Miovmiilaliiit Labomtory at the lhman Nutrition Research Cender at Tufts University in Boeton. "Th window betwoen aptimal letrd - the upper link de ree Cned - wheety mall Indeed, the "areequae intale EVENING SNACK rnfahtohyytty the NASW 1.000 to 1,300mi ligramsa der depending on maw, Oibr bwice chst macketadin Glnt and Safeway that y E yoe've reacled the sadety ocling 2 marg other rutrienta, you'd TOTAL liee hefore maching risk kevela What can happen a you take h too marh cabeium owe € Woed suy Uhere havr 1 "on the order of Sucme reports" ofcal clum torkcity, which 8 mawiles iter 3 à lirrar perbeps lns some A ther haneiion. the waanndd is catee can pamp xine bndacce
much more akium then a band lof lle a rent enntalued 300 in 400 mitoogm er de mineral or 00er s Pardur's Wewver, Srr pen ele niw setiing vnly 200 ln 400 milliprams 8 calcumm daryy. the coreal Ppa atiz he un hd. And lo e people do a and Der 1 Wand eveure ar yoe don drink - & CALER estom mil,, your eudrium a notion hs plent 300 le 400 milli tram I he Reys. 1.000 110 $u nule of thumh people ahock 350 90 know 300 120 wich the exocptionef llcaney, thoud ds rescarchere agrce that in salcut aot tn ent wane aore 2,500 manligramuffellcim tban daily, regandheee R variations e sheorption 83 ratca "Count # Weaver a "Make w 212 10/ marrene snigaa OOTE 150 130 Woo mny Dar stayingwithin dh Duu e partimmar concern in haunchhlda with Na 200 . mothur trying a Hel more calciun anr her 140 teenage son who already gete elenty hy shoer diet of the amount et foodhe eats See L3 2 142 might tra cadciura furtitidd onan julce, e - 47 26 cen fort F 4 cerenl and an an, but 11 17 be auande milk ee huler - . le nataise a 3 . 217 aller fecehell practice ha . caspler nf e 1er 50 bowe at osreal a an after--chol an 4 ai could cisily be getung thoesunds of a 162 - liraa of calchum Wiod and other rescerchers -be agrey GO0 200 chat weteent en ert your calcium frem rani etp et foods rather then coe or two beavily furtifsed ene and Uta at kaue soue of E 3,304 1,487 aboudd come faom a ame ocher dairy prod le low in mapacsitm,, rihollavin, vitamin . and vitamin D--l maraabee in m "parry was kdnd nf oncatup shupplng ke tion locacarch Conter u Tuta, ba partioulurty that . i withali comondra I Flet, . mineval researcher at Pur
A Calclum-Fortifled Day 3/4 Bo - 1 en cagum furtifed Merve Mtldd ernng hive te bn ae ec han a a Sein chovse Wunder Englic 5 Nutr---iain bar a e shvvess dhice leu tse Shedis E Courin Croch Ph Calcim baled potate, arpee wic the Shedf . a Ce Dr Phe Calnir DE aup Drean Calelum R varilla ice cream
The enlcium reccmmendacion fr teenagre le 00E'1 miliigranss aud 1o age sn, dem -ffrule foods on the merket today, in e to comsune more deen 2500 cam x Tulerable Upper Inteke Level se Un the Nathaaal Aralnrg ef en die of enly vog'r ralurion. Check aut the Aulum mena
hond o cerea A 16 das 1000 milligrams: end adulu Sl-luus, 1.200 milligrams.. Het with the dovens ef
lave b incroane the mdequnte intahe mnu - I anter - a . - - -niee iee u - : We de h - ucte "Hiituriillyy Weaver expluis, per tho.. dliainn und nol thvue cal iffraaice Othen agree that calctum-dortilied foode agres She 4 queatluns the LO00 1 - = . aade mone ammee a y l à The Midgg made ef we thsuue, "moggh be are . ressonatle optleg. - favvor the comorpt Nemm nl calclum new - be every serp ing te set cakciun het m mrensaurily the per iiulury winemble."" à resmrks,, and a fartificution," siy Nuhert Heaney. - eacc ingortital ecreal, RLL an exccaniv level ether ubetaneee from volriun fortille Then, ton, Aypercalcenais. as toxicity et Onuha And unlie Wond he's not partie k an anpreendeptnd leve. protubly higher Irwin Rosenberg dhrector of the Nutr lave hada stone in the poet. Ton mach ald whn coosume lots more than ithel I he esne A the quirk in the 1 abooppion tiun ofa singhe nutrient will la people intu a ean ale reduce abaurgtion e tw other claime Some populations who depend on . nf calcium. yo wi abrorb more calcium i thinkfog they're nourissiing themelvvs ade emsutiiiriierralirr and nhe the battin A largely en dan diet. sact a conberds in you hueer di.dddd..nn throughout the das quately. "Yon dont aet on - hook of wo widhh h acccraayy for wound bealing and Eas Alrica and dhe Lapps whe lanirindder 4 w Thot's war poggd whe uhe 0u ln prudent dictary cholces because ayn enuprr Besctioning a the ismune neler ln northern Scandinavia, "Lypicaliy KE4,0000 milligann worth of eulcium supplewentts pichedone u t heavily fartifled fods h While sach problems have bene rare wnd about which food the minest 1 to be condadedd hsconadallilyyy testing An Total your bones completuly proterted au be www re superusrllet sbelves rabes the Bur imtance. Brever'sisnow lnd market I thet the enkcimm in Uhe rereal - n dennity is * strengahened ler excrdee." he thrvat e thrir hecoming more commen. ine ln eream thel contalon 300 miligramn sorbed ant a wellas theenkhmm ln milk. Her mya "Andi weakened hy ino litd vitamin Nit Uhit Wood thinks malchun-fortitied ofcalcimm per halfeup inatead of the typical every 300 miligramn nf ralcium consumeed D. which is necessary for cakclum absorp Sondeare hud thing - think they E Rond 100 milligrams, and Hesney remarks, Tve (the amount le om of mik), the bodr ab Bon-and pertape by t0o much sodjun ani 4 be S "everng intakee are much R4 mixod fochig S the juck laod situa sorbs 100 miligrams,, er ronghly 30 peecent. catictne. Bch rubndances work de fhu the be m wnenn 20 L a yeare e aweuer Adde Conele Winnee, ouchu luventiga Che ahrrrption rute mpo doan. I you have M other murda, a Hwn 1 a "ealol when the shoukl he curvimmingg 1,000 day: l Tdhate lone peopk wse the cecuse of 1 omtaain I 000 milligruna T cuase yoal ve 1 a bonl e Total doesn' herau And wumen 65 and PPP who needingtogel pnno ealciun teea lots duinelle to 11 pereet alcut 150 mi mean vou ve coceed all the horen lne lodly about leh Uet umoun fesa al problem whil making another ann ipreva ann arrving supplies 1.00 milllgraaa,, yeu Butone.Rdohccuuumnnee Leamence hndtr mnee an the ander of R ta 99 mil Bon Dunre Haghen chief of the Calci Inchh minds, yua'emet ubsurbingherribyy Uwieeryitt Hralth Nidrition Leltm
-e -e 1000 I . - . J - h Deme tve 4 1 1 - a 1 ple who have been deficient la cndcimm hae
E aral Bune Metaboleen Lab at Tunls, this package e mutriudt,, de I a a
um researcher at Creighton Universityy ir 2 fortification, she comments ln certainir d Aadny ulurty concerned abowt anyoer 1 ewr tha de airg ucher cakcum furtaned ford.
whne furmation, particularly people wbe boant "There lote e very healchy
h somee
be reservations, ton, concerned
aon
are
people Wenver
* 1 study a pont-mengpansal WOHTE te 00072 millinamm ef w per € arel d i adviced te snall ha their twa a00 aay a Wuedd meports "Higheallcim dir te heve "absolutely no probiems, he s milligam pille er different nacab
Phr he and Lothe do hane sovue reservations Heunyy dehonsrraed the pnint when he dan, priu cnt, tuo the ymrdont even have
www, F plethura a calchm Hortined Reun added to, mnc lowe then ahe recomunewhaloss F Bhm only wbutt 710 miliggsmm et cadeem
prodarer, Gencral Mans. & one hand, hr cause auno aetting l ot cadduni BBee Hut u dh enkcum in * mral Bons a mineral frcen the bnnly via Uhe urinc. ahmorb eehr abunt 1s0of them,, Heaney w Lindmer Cr emewiine elitorofthe Tutr
tor at Pardue Ualvernily in Wiet Laiayerte, theee to ker eups a mik in one siting um h ontr ane part ef the pursee, Just he
shoudd he vectin 1,200 mitiggram,, are tak ot au anl calories. Then youre solving ode ligmmm, a' the sinve wih the Toral Slace
Bar don for men althoenh the we for thren innce Mygppp I
