PRICAMEHHOUSLCOPERS
August 18, 2000
Via Facsimile and Overnight Mail
Re: Independent Auditor's Notice of Intent to Issue 3" Revised Final Calculations for the Tobacco Litigation Master Settlement Agreement Subsection VI(c) Account Si ubseqi uent) Payments Due March 31. 2000 and Subsection IX(cX1) Account
Payments Due April 15. 2000 - NOTICE A 0033
Dear Notice Party:
PricowatorhouscCoopprrr LLP, in its capacity as Independent Auditor to the Tobacco Litigation Master Settlement Agreement ("MSA") provides the following notice to indicate the Independent Auditor' ' intent to issue revised detailed calculations of amounts to be paid into the Subsection VI(c) Escrow Account (Subsequent) and the Subsection IX(EX1)Escrow Account ("3" Revised Final VI(c) Calculation" and pEE Revised Final DX(c(11) Calculation, respectively). All capitalized terms used in this notice, unless otherwise defined herein, shall be defined as in the MSA The information contained in this notice is considered confidential and should not be used In light of several data-related issues raised in dispute letters authored by the National Association of Attomeyy General ("NAAG") and one of the Participating Manufacturers, as well as newly provided data Aq one of the Original Participating Manufacturers this weck, the Independent Auditor believes that the issuance of . 3" Revised Final VI(c) Calculation and a AE Revised Final 1X(cX1) Calculation is necessary. It ie anticipated that these calculatione would be issued on Friday, August 25, 2000. In regards to payments made by those Participating Manufacturers having payment obligations resulting from the 2" Revised Final Calculations issued July 31, 2000, the Independent Auditor intends to withhold instructions to the Escrow Agent for disbursement of deposited funds to the Settling States until any additional payments required by the 3r Revised Final VI(c) Calculation and 3" Revised Final DX(XX1) Calculation are made. Over and underpayments will be treated in the manner sct forth in subscction (DIX of the Finally, with respect to the iesue of dispute deadlinee raised by NAAG, the Independent Auditor believes that subsection XI(i(I)(A) of the MSArequires related payments to be made . .not more than 20 days after receipt of the notice. and disputes to be made : à not more than 15 days after receipt of such notice. : Therefore, as previously stated, the Independent Auditor anticipates issuing the 3" Revised Final VI(c) Calculation and pE Revised Final IX(c)11) Calculation on Friday, August 25, 2000. Notices of dispute(s) rrelated to these calculations would then be due September 8, 2000 (as September 9, 2000 falls on a weekend). Payments, if any, would be due September 14, 2000 and disbursement of those funds to the Settling States, as well as the funds deposited by Participating Manufacturers in response to the July 31, 2000
for any purpose other than as contemplated in the MSA.
MSA
calculations, would occur September 15, 2000.
:
Notice e 0033
