NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A campaign to woo Dade County teenagers away from smoking la under way bere as part of a nation-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groupe, the society hopes to persuade a large pro- portion of the nation's young people that smoking may Jead Key arapon in the : m- palgn, le nim strip detalling thr : against tobacen, It has already I shews te - enth graders in 13 achools a educational televinion, and will 1 brnadeant tn miath Krade aclence students la the The seventh-grade program, directed by teacher Bill Evans, inchuded a panel discussion in which students directed ques. tiona at Dr. Francia N. Cooke, representing the society. - Teachers I have talked to agree that although amoking is not a serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu. dents are approsching the age when the problem wu be faced," Erene said: Mata value a a nimstrips E * gives studenta logleal argument with whleh ithey eeald retue ta - - - when nrauraged by atrele et frienda," a added. The Aim atrip la alse being shman "live to senior a - achools in the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October 9, 1960
Education Cuts Youth
a
Habits
Fag a
American eigaret moking ean be reduced * k cent through teenage education program .A & high schools. These statistics vere presenled Saturday b Walter G. ! director of public education for the American Cancer Society, here for the Florida Division. ACS, annual meeting I said the t mokel program : directed at leenagers as * meana fer I cancer becsue a the soclety's eseviction that snoking r . came ol fatal lung a proepects of reducing cigaret smoking b one-fifth were abin s pilot program conducted with 27.000 high achool atudents a Partland. Ore, I 1 the di a Budenta I perents I wne mod lakely a 1. Smoking incressed la the successive high school prades. Among boys participating in the Oregon arvey, 143 & eent smoked as freshmen. 15.2 8 eent as sopbemores, 31.1 per eent as juniars, 1 354 as I A correspond ing figures for girt stadenta were 4.6 per cent, 10.6 per cent, 1 or the students. iss per cent of the boys smoked regularty at least enre . 1 a did 114 per cent ol the girts 4. Education programs against smoking reduced the number ol new umokers aroong boys from is per cent de 1.7 & cent, and beginning sirl mokers from 14 le 1.r PROGRAM ETFECTIVE James eaid the figures projected ever a four-year periaid indicaled 2 20 per eent d high school I could g deterred from amoking through the ACS educational program: A study, a said, revealed that the 1 affactive approach war in showing the leng term elfect e moking. leaving the decision te he I + a Least ellective, he related, : the aimple instruction not 1 a part * 5 anti-smaling edunation program, a ACS has deviaed a Ain drip Thatrating affecta a r habit for rcreming in * achool classrooini.
a cancer.
at A 3 Mar Hotel can doaur
apring.
.
I a eigaret dabit.
3 & cent and a per rent.
- Tua NITIN 20/0022686
