Polluted by Samuel S. Epstein The amhor surveys the record of industri-generated data Emalang endeme shuns 2 mnstrant un data- from Khus wnbapren biased merpretation. ma mpulatam. suppressmm and even lex outright de Nem Inm- ate commumplac e espe iall when prohtable in hnolugirs are mobesed Alarmingh, unh et sdens nos juuhrs strong resenations as in the abdus of and data developed by institutions an inde aluals nhune a uumm intetest are dureith or Information n she un en of esomis and pubtnal pumer Beuson-making al all levels of gm. etument sandmansad the av arlabuhts of a buds of in. lurmation. sau the hasn al a - h the relauine merits al ahernate puln 5 an he anah red and considered. If thn mlun matam a data base is 3 nushed ur imal. xl. shen nhatert de nams ate tear hed saus alsobe unpr en malal, threatenng the laban of demm The merwhrlming talk ol all beneht and usk dana. en nhn h nust tegulator des BANS are hased. LURE frem de mulunur aes thennehes hemg legulat. ed Theve data ateether generated and mtet pteted marsand unnerses under sem 5 le mdusin me a Indunanal unh - : une - sal labonator a manket, . pia idsompeninesapualou tar : is nahn à man pue unsisten
mehe th afles a
stan gmeinment
Buli inte thn prem 7 adre of consuhants, maitunes, whuse stamp of wuldr al pronides
In m-lnne e wouhe stall an he unnet al Lalana generalh from presigunes umeruuties or reseate h In-lune wentsh sull are not mmmune to son dana wnh an addemmal muntle of anthorits Thr > snr and sale ona ann presures froms teseare identes ol theve consultas dte ofien and dewhspement and markeing departments ans anh from the publu hur alsu from ther men unner. HMS le hun then produnt a wut EM mu en MIE ot insumutens l'be mulunal mictests of theve amma a atr mualls amaided se umsuliants ate ethet INN da lased to the agens Res anlunt lub lur mg hr 4 Isen sub aed ENT the upen in a de hundaremualh mantained m unbdemal me haudh mosuce wath the ethn be Let's leuk at les ase hnter in diav = fum mfen matan et merpspations the mer . a problem wah mdustrall gen
the hidden not
risin. en nhunc antuves and espen cummitices thes sil. the fuld al a upanmal and emurmmental . e Comstramt IN thr fiemctalut et Delu preaurs - du anteuses data a a qualn etated pau thn lumed the madequa shen arm tath and lind Dug m 3 Heuk furthre
la an de tes rager for the I et foure unt mmm une ter ungsken sub nhan 4 prhened the comm a ang mulun ven thugh peteepem a mants hkeh le refiet enthan he gtem. mtetests me salue Suttan paten Moleme e the whal tul - : a ile 1 Modual Pum E al pahish hn 1u - denmeshnghe pashut 11
In con emed Derph d dau sulumated in 1967 le she Adman ivar In indusun m malden a haut addane petitions, then - (ammun. sinne Hedent Les complamed Aluant hall al the fewd andane prtam at agmalls submumed lu she Fand I Dug Admmstatatue hne hern me an pler : har mat aleputch suppassed sbu regula Hen tequested aud therfen hne tegm
ant sulne
