PKU
Carcinogenesis vul 11 nu 13 rp.221-2725, 1994 carcinogens Putureso.plugAupau-p chemopreventive agents
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
pyridyl)-1-butande and
C342
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Health Foundation, Valhalla NY 10595, USA
models examined e date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclie aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the A/J mouse because previous
The purpose of this study SEM to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against Jung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction in AIJ mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression 01 by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridy)-1-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However. the combined and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice CI evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenbere were treated by either intragastric adeaud (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a aumber of intraperitoneal injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and7.12-dimethylbenzialanthracene (9,10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse ol evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The i.g. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4.11,12). Results obtained with the All mouse can be replicated because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems. For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injection site and associated mortality A dose response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/1 mouse and F344 rat (11,13). mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not he realistic with respect 01 tobacco of 24 jumol of each) induced more lung tume ors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for - study, NNK and BaP. are important Comparisons of NNK and RaP given individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (11. when given iq the i.g. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either were complicated by local tumor formation and mortalits. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 umol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and subdoses i.g., with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we examined tumor yields obtained dosing. This reginen induced 10.5:44 lung adenomasi uodn treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen. 8 weeks, followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 19 ethytisothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITO tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP. this study provide a convenlent model for assessing the NNK was synthesized in the American Health Foundation Organic Synthesis efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility: Its purity was established by HPLC as >997. Bap (93% purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which Amencan Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maistained on AIN-754 dirt containing 5% MAS oil. as previously to play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups cf 15 as sammarized in Table 1. At ase - weeks each mouse wa kers: 4-(metitylnitrosamino)- -(3-pyridyl)- I-butanone (NNK") treased by intraperitoneal (ip.) injection or by intragastric gavage (ia) with and benzofalpyrenc (BaP) (1) NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical is 0.1 ml cononseed oil. NNK and BaP were both carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in the 0.1 ml used for treatment. Injections and gavages were carried *Abbrovintions: NNK, 4-(methyl osamino)- 1-(3-pyrldyla-1 -butunone; individuat dose was cee -eighth of the notal Equimolar dours of NNK and a aaP benzolelpyrene: PEITC, phencily isothiocyanale: BITC, benzyl BaP were wed in most of the combination groups, because the armounts of
whlch these 01s) tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the
Most previous studies in the A/l mouse have examined We sought to develop a model which could be used to
that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
5.9= 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (F A 0.001) and completely inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inhibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
BITC (989 purity) and PEITC (935 (Apand were abtained from the Aldrich Chemical Cempany (Milwaukes, WI. Cottonseed oll was purchased from Female A/J mice. age weeka, were obtained fom The Jackson Laboranory dhar Harbor, ME). They were housed undes standard conditions in the The desiga of the bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1. A mice were divider out for 8 consecutive weeks. The toral doses are given in Table L Each 16 NNK and total carcinogenie polycyelic hydrocarbons in tobacco smake are
Sigma Chemical Co (St Louis, MO).
Introduction
agents against two of the carcinogen: in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
isothiocyanaie, > intriperitoncal, is. introgastric gavage.
o Onford Unversity Press
2721
