100 East End Avanue Ncw York, New York 10028 Telophone (212) C28-6300
Foundation
OFFICERS AND BOARS CF TAUSTEES David J. Mahoney, Chairman President Nartan Simon, inc. Emest L. Wynder, M. D. President Thomas J. Ross, Jr., Sacretary Vice President car Airlines, Ins. Warner o Cosgrove, Jr., Treasurer Manasing Partner Shieics 4 Company Trustecs: Louis V. Aronsen, = Prasident Ronsen Corporation Mrs. Chanes A. Dana Froderie C. Dacker Dacker Presicent Communications, Inc. Walter Senior a Panner Hanson Peat, Marwick, Mitchell a Ca. George James, M.D. Dean The aunon Sinai School of Medicine William J. Levis Chairman of the Soard Levitt - Sons, Inc. G. wetiam Mcore Presicent Fielderes: Milis, Ine. JesephM, Murha President Sandgran a Murha, Ine Roban R. Pauley Maxwall M. Rabb Partner Stroock & Stroock & Lavan David L. Davies. Erecutive Vise Presidant Javits a Javits Genoral Counsel
American Health
July 7, 1970
G. F. Todd, Esq. Tobacco Research Council Glen House, Stag Place London, S.W.1 England
Dear Mr. Todd:
In recent talks with Dr. Carl G. Baker, Director of forming an international study group concerned with research into tobacco and health problems was discussed. This letter is to invite you on behalf of your organization to participate in this The proceedings will aim at providing the relatively few active investigators in tobacco and health research programs with an opportunity to discuss freely current and future research programs with the intent of reaching common objectives more quickly. The group will be composed of investigators primarily invoived in tobacco and health research oriented towards producing less harmful smoking products. The partici- pants must be both willing and able to share with other investigators what is being learned from their current activities and openly discuss plans for future research in the field. It is thought that by bringing such a anoz6 of experts together to review ongoing u tudies and to plan future investigations jointly harmful tobacco products will be available sooner and costly research projects will not be duplicated unneces- sarily. The meetings would be held at yearly intervals with the different organizations acting as host.
the
of the National Cancer Institute,
desirability
information and study group.
less
