0968
.RAP
: ACH 4
Relative Hepatotoxicity of Some Industrial Solvents after Intraperitoneal Injection or Inhalation Exposure in Rats INOVAR LUNDBERG, MARIANNE EKDAHL. TONY KRONEVI. VITAUTS LIDUMS, Research Depursmetal, National Ra * Orsspatin Safery a Meel - S-171 & Sulan, Sweden Intruperisoneal LD, (lethal dose son hill values - maimal liver seaic duss in 1 Spragut-Duwky Rule - detemined lu Ihe 1 -dunsind wdrents toluene. 1 a - - les hiuroeshen inchlore eshylene. ethanul meshyl sthel ctune and ane hu the fulluwing solweis LC, I - in a dene insu arkes alvises chlore form, Tate chlurosshylene 1 dimethylformuman HOME The acrum astinky of the : zyme werbitel dehydrogenane (SDH) - wied . e - la A - damage Carbue isim chloride chlorufurm and DMF Maelenus lus duse cumpared la 9 values a w and x i Calurolorm and DMP a * 4 inbulation caposure $ values apprusumerely 1 and Jed t Even reletively 1 dones of the her solw de 2 fane the sue sctity Signifisant diresi (metabe a nediatedi hepatotosicHy sesm lu be in - cummon featue amwne commonly wed The hepatoloxicity of some industrial sulvents. especially carbon tetrachloride and chloroform har been catensively studied a concerning liver loxicity can be found also for marfy other solvents However, the liver luxicity hus in only few çases been studied relative lo other ellesis uf the sulvents In occupational medicine this I of information is of M me value as cllects with significance for the establishment ul threshold lumut values ars ut par ucular interest Sever al methands ha : been used le cyahuals luas luver damage in caperimental animals. determunator of different live <n4 yme a unviles in serum A raised activity of such enzymes is caused by increased leakage of the enzymes through the cell membrancs but H is uncertan whether shis Icakage is - in an inevi- table develupment of cell necre (Zimmerman, 1976) However, the enzyme analyses provide bettes quantitative estimales a the extent of necrosis and are casier lo perfurm than micruscopical ramination uf tissue preparations Though limited necrosis can only be detected microscopic ally certair enzymes are highly sensitive for liver cell necrosis Korsrud el et (1972. 1973) have shown that sor bitol dchydrogenase (SDH)" is such an cnayme. In studies where different $ Abbreviations uned DMF dhmeshylformamide SEN sorbitu dehydrogenase, ALAT alanine aminotrumsferast LD, lethal doas xix ka LC. leshal cate ration N E TD. loak doe s TC - losic con cotration son Throughous du 1 wirset vonse ( - solvensipcanut a misture refen to volume percent. The roleme lou ahes misturs - neglesied.
AND STINA LUNDBERO Received Max 1984
yiene chloride carbun tetrachloride : arch and minimul hver luan : concen (TD, floaic duse $ - da app a - hepulutenk - comparatively k a (TC, (tuais Cut uatrial solventa. -
INTRODUCTION
411
0013-9151 S1 n .
2501661843
