BOULDER DAILY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

Area stores

SA

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For tha Delly Camera
"9xour
kids.
kar

referring to the increased enforce-
penally Tur nugas tobacco 801 m
pou; B Anq the cigarettes. The
the cigareites, and, jf asked, they
(Sce BOULDER, Page 3C)

mont.

Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky OFQanous
nesses this week during a crack. getcaught,were issued. summons
doun on selling cigarettes to ml: fo appoar LE court. The. maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve -horis a $200 fine
of the American Cancer Soclety's The Supa involved two tcams.
Great American Smokeout, was in- Each included u uniformed omcer.
tended 01 educate clerks that it's il- a plain çlothes ouncer. pue UMI
legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviaw High School siris, who
Police targeted gas stations, -005 giris' parenis signed a waiver al.
venience, drug, grocery and "SIP lowing them to Take parin.thc.op:
law has never beeri enforced, said The juvenlles wero told not to
Jopinog Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
"We're letting the stores know had to show identification.

"count stores. inun, recently, the eration.
this is going to happen,' ahc sald,

Boulder police sting stores
for cigarette sales to minors
At the Conoco atation, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry
28uh SL, one of the girts asked when she was jasted asum,
the cashler for a pack of Mart mons. ous naid OEU was a stur
boro Lights. Officer Rob Hauke- JUOP and couldn't pione pur
ness, In plain clothes, poons In tourt costs. Haukeness pou W.
-ine-hehinind her to witness thç 6818010 hér, saying she -Pinoo
A placard near the cash regis. the Distriet Attorney to do cam
ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity açrvice instrad of paying
clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clerks, not the store OWT:
cation. The buyer produced lier ers ot manugers, have to pay the,
she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l du it to .ustund
ed at the license, act it down on stores or clerks," she said.
the counter, and sold her the though, when you scc clerks "Al:
Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted 15:
stepped dn and identified him sloros and clerks al all but four
celf as a police officer. Manka recelved summonses.
came In and wrote the clerk a This wock'a operation was the.
"When I see chem ask for an year. The Arst sting, conducte
E I think they're going to 2 in September, targeted 16 stores:
osnt the cale," Haukeness sald. und SI clerks received sum?

(From Page 1C)

The clerk at Colony Market,

transaction.

prububly work out a dealwith-

No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ane,
driver's license, which showed court costs.

cigarettes.
summons.

ing, you might think otherwise. cry:" -
punas tobacco sale stine this

"But they never 8

monses.