Vol. 285 No. 23
EDITORIALS
1317
The New England Journal of Medicine Official Organ of The Massachusetts Stedical Society Founded la 1812 as Nevr the ENGLAND JOURNAL or MEDICINE AND SURGERY and continued in 1528 as Vol. of the BOSTON MEDICAL AND SUAGICAL Jouanai, PUBLISHES WEEKLY BY THE COMMITTEE ON PUSLICATIONS or THE MASNACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY Claude E Weich, M.D., Cininnan Joseph Garland, M.D., EDITOR EMERITUS Franz J. Ingelfinger, M.D., EDITOR AssociATE Entroas George S. Richardson. M.D., Boos Reviews Robert O'Leary, ASSISTANT EDITOR EDITORIAL BOARD
ACTION ON ASBESTOS ASBESTOS workers are unintentional victims of industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary fibrosis, pleural culcification, mesotheliomas and lung cancer. Asbestos exposure is now involving not only air but also wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex- posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or ferruginous bodies may be, there is no doubt that electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers ease in the general population at this time, the presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing. Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by most chemical and physical means and can float freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods. Asbestos discases have a long latent sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must made now, On the basis of "reasonable probabili- ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition of dose-response relations. These thoughts are reinforced by the work of new ship construction include better than usual tions. A second study of Murphy et al.' reports two cases of pleural disease (one mesothelioma) in workers who sanded asbestos floor tiles. Since the
widespread, drinking water,
Alexander Marble, M D. Samuel Proger, M.D.
Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al- Leroy D. Vandam. M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-
20 period,
Jane a Desforges, M.D. Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.
Ronald A. Malt, M.D.
Arnold L. Smith, M.D. years or more. We therefore believe that more
be
Robert E. Johnson, M.D. Norman G. Levinsky, M.D. Francis D. Moore, M.D. Charies A. Sanders, M.D, Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D. Ronald A. Arky a's Dana L. Farnsworth, M.D.
Jola 3 Littlefield, M.D, Murphy and associates in this Issue of the Journal Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, 6 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in John R. David, M.D. exposure data and indicate a high incidence of as- Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. bestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-
Louis Weinstein, M.D. Howard Bleich, M.D.
Isadore N, Rosenberg, M.D. Milton C. Paige, * BUSINESS MANAGER
AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au- nal should consult "information for Authors. This malerial thors simulated the working conditions and found may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour concentrations of 1.3 fibers per milliliter of room nel, or it may be obtained from the Jeanial office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of space, and all material, including figures, should be submit- used threshold limit values. A fber per milliliter of CASE REPORTS, usually published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 10 Abers every gence" section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled
manuscript, including references, should be typed double reference to articles reporting closely related cases. A very fibers remains in the short case report or description of a technic submitted as a "BRICY RECORDING" should be limited to 500 words. MATERLAL prinsed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period. cine is covered by copyright, The Journal does not hold iuelf responsible for statements made gr any contributor. NOTICES should be received not later than noon on Mon- day, 24 days before date of publication. cies published. Requests should be sent to the author. imply endorsement by the Journal, Arbor, Michigan 48106. chusetts 02115.
currently figures suggest
ted in duplicate.
room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per an alarming number will still accumulate over a -OI A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation- al Academy of Sciences panelt has called for control of asbestos emissions at the source and for protec- The report also calls for further research on the fibers; such data are urgently needed F
these lung,
that
a
REPRINTS: The Jourmal does not stock reprints of the arti- tion of those who are exposed in their occupations. ALTHOLGH all advertising material accepted a expected to biologic effects and the physica! characteristics of SunscRITTION PRICES (worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates ard in U.S. funds only. confidence." Although we endorse these recommen- MICROFILSE volumes available to regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for through University Microfilms, 315 N. First Strees, Ann technical controls based on existing knowledge. COMMUNICATIONS shouid be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as- land Journal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects
conform so ethical medical standards, acceptance "does not asbestos
on cells and tissues are important and must be con-
