L
sa/uls
IHT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira New York Times Serier
wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars a made cigarettes last year, ringing became a issue even in recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22
TAIPEI I The Marlboro cow. dn sales of $119 million. la 1986, trade talks between the United New Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just S4 4 million. For- Suates and Taiwan. Wang Chicn. pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly 18 shieag. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertix Sown. His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered R ing in Japan are more liberal, Com- guitar-playing. jeans-clad promot. Indood, Asian sales accounted give out free cigarettes and gifts," B aggressive campaign. Television This frenetic, fast-groming 0a- cigaretie exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawed in the United States in 1971. tioc of nearly 20 million pcopie ly because both Taiwan and Japan school students - 12, L years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-standing restrictions. are DON smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry a label that, year and for the first time, - According to the Brown & Wil. rette companica promote cigareties roughly translated, says, "For the ubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? It's O.K. W have them sake of health, don't smoke 100 made .a America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" a waming much milder To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year, re- joy - 915, billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in si uomg in new sales the United States. But those people mandated a the United Siates.
and dod-pus-moun stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
panies can advertise on TY after
out this city. next to posters & a peroent. er of Winston cigarettes.
"They go 01 amusement places 10 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting
for most of the growth in American be said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-
In Sapan, which has population millioa of 120 and where poople ube past year. The market share 85 American cigarettes increased to) ers vigorously deny 10 from 3 percent is 1986, and the promoting
bfacturers have essentially intro cigarette advertising 01 the tbe American companics of entic- ing teen-agers o take dn moking, operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992. tised, altbough it does pow, pressure from Washingion. In the alcohol. year since stiff restrictions on for. & cigarettes were dropped. o American cigarettes UT Taiwan for peadod prowth American man- sfacturens at time when sales in export way and tbe number ol anti-smoking laws is way dn
are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe 'companies say Amencan "uru a human being, you won't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan nos RO much because of the adver. tising a because they are of better quality and Laste beiter. American are with the way are cigareties made of they and bacco and have less tar than Tai- products say wascse cigarettos which are not
duced
island, and that has created a furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes year that. Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled
American
cigarette manufactur- there in any- Tbey are not allowed to advertise 5 small stores where cigareties are as well as through promo- alao 120 ada a yeu in place droulation maga. acl. dom exooeds 200,000. people Taiwan im-
blended to
charge the American companies more than perceat last year, thing 3uoin their The goverament-administed dicts that il could grow to 15 8. 20 sales pitch.
botly deny.
Department of Agriculture -oud ihry have no pians to change their bleaded. American pressure to open their have they pusbed 10 do so, they say. said Jaw Shau-kong a legisiator. tions. Cigarette uamisapentra may courage its people to amoke, why zines, cach ol whoec causc of American ada. They hire rettes accountod for leas than 1 per young attractive pro-rol-61 piria oent of tbe market wearing short skirts to give ing cig. posed strict quotas on forcig and then it becomos a habit. It's cigarettes and imposed stiff teriffs.
the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials a tbey resent lon television or ig newspapers. Nor The government agreed to allow markets to producta that éndanger Tbey can advertise only through otbers into the business oaly under poople's health, like cigareltes and posiers hung near cigaretie racks or
sales # really burts our feelings, kold,
have soared, generating much- II.. the United Sustes docs not en-
to Taiwan? Younger
the Uaited Suates are down - females are smoking - lot 8 Before last yoar, forcign ciga According to the U.S. Depart- arettes (roe 9 nightclube Is's a cigarettes, bandad imports at - mbat ol Agriculture, people in Tal- difficult for Sunak boys to resist, 70,000 retail outlets licenaed to sell
immoral.
> - result, imported agaretie cost
OL+L9000SZ
