Appendia

semenars in CANCER BIOLOGY, Vol - 1990 : pp 197-136

The role of cathepsin L in malignant transformation

Susan E. Kane and Michael M. Gottesman*

Procathepsin 7 is the major excreted protein of malignantly What is MEP: The first hint as to the identification of
transformed mouse fibroblasts and it is one of the major MEP came from studies in which MEP was shown to
acid cysteine proteases in mammalian celis. The broad gen- be a glycoprotein containing mannose 6-phosphate. -
aal protease activity of cathepsin 7 against a variety of Since mannose 6-phosphate is a lysosomal recogni-
extracellular matrix proteins as well as other intracellular tion marker. it appeared that MEP was a Ivsosomal
protein substrates, and its regulation bi factors twhich stim- protein whose transcription was increased as the
ulate growth, suggest that it contributes to the transformed result of growth stimulation. A search for hydrolytic
phenotype. Possible functions in antigen processing, inua- activities associated wich purified MEP led to the dis-
siveness, metastasis, and turnover of intracellular and covery that MEP was an acid protease inhibitable by
secreted proteins involued in grouth regulation have been leupeptin, which put it in the class of cysteine pro-
Key words: Cathepsin L à growth factors / numor pro- resembled that of cathepsin L.10 However. published
THE ASSOCIATION of cathepsin L with the process of weights of 21,000 Da and 5000 Da, whereas MEP was
malignant transformation was first demonstrated in a 39,000 Da protein. This discrepancy was resolved
1978, when = was found that malignantly trans- when the sequence of MEP CDNA was determined
formed mouse fibroblasts secrete large amounts of a and its deduced amino acid sequence was compared
39.000 Da protein into their culture medium. This to the available partial protein sequence of cathepsin
protein, termed MEP for major excreted protein, was L. MEP was found to be the precursor to the lysoso-
purified to homogeneity and rabbit antisera were mal form of cathepsin L." identical 01 the major cys-
raised against the purified mouse protein. The anti- teine protease of activated macrophagesi? and the
sera were found to precipitate an intracellular -oud major ras-induced protein of transformed
tein which was present in nontransformed celis and fibroblasts.13 For the remainder of this review, MEP
svnthesized at dramatically increased rates in trans- will be referred to as procathepsin L.
be the result of elevated amounts of translatable MEP tied to growth stimulation in cultured cells? Does the
mRNA. Later. after a CDNA for MEP was cloned, enzymology of cathepsin L indicate anything about
this high level of MRNA was demonstrated by nuclear its possible function un malignancy? Why is pro-
run-off SAESSE to be the result of increased transcrip cathepsin L secreted even though it carries lysosomal
tion.5 PMA, a phorbol ester tumor promoter, and a recognition markers: How is in processed to vield
variety of growth factors*A7 were shown to stimulate mature cathepsin L in Ivsosomes? How do oncogenes
MEP synthesis and secretion, suggesting that MEP and growth factors regulate expression of procathep-
was associated with the process of growth in cultured sin L mRNA? Does cathepsin L play a role in human

proposed.

teases. More detailed analysis of the proteolytic
specificity of MEP on oxidized insulin B chain, a stan-
dard protease substrate. showed that MEP activity
data on cathepsin L suggested that the Iysosomal
form of this protease was a protein consisting of hvo
polypeptide chains having approximate molecular

moters / oncogenes / secreted proteases

formed cells.? This increased synthesis was shown to

Why is the synthesis of procathepsin L so closely

fibroblasts.

cancer? This review will attempt to provide answers to

these questions.

From the Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Cancer
Institute, NIH, 9000 Rockville Pikr, Building 37, Room 2E16,
Bethesda, MD 20892. USA
*To whom reprinis requests should de addressed
e 1990 h WB Saunders Company
1044-579X/90/0102-010455.00/0

Enzymology of cathepsin L

Cathepsin L is a porent cysteine protease one of sev
eral acid proteases presumed to be invoived in the

127