HKU2223022
Life Seiences Vol. 15, PP. 1291-1300 Printed in the V.S.A.
Perganon ress
M
or a (a PYRTE sr KICBosours FRON TIS a PRECOLANT a F Ar STERE Irena T. Mang, Bonald E. Ra seuesen and T. Timothy Crockert Cancer Besearch - itute, Univeraity of California San Prancisco, and Depart- ment of Community and A nvironnental Medieine, Univeraits of California, Irvine*. (Received in final form 26 August 19745 Sumary Pratreatnest of hansters with benzo (a)pyrene (BaP) greatly incressed the in vitre metabol ise of Bat by lung alere anes fron prognant hau- atare, and 3 lewa effect on the metaboli a of Bar by liver miere- somes - The produetion of various metaholites of Bap by lune miere- dihytrodihypdroxy-Bat (9,10-diol) and 7,0-diol vexe incrensed tore than that of the 4,5-diol. In the ense of 1iver mierosones only the yielde of 9,10-dioi and 7,8-diol ware incressad ovar the contrel leveis, The presence of eyelohexene oxide in the incuba tion mix tures decressed the production of the dieln. Basal-level anevee activities in placental fetal 1iver, and fotal akin aicroson es in metabolizine Rep vere very low. Pretreatnent of pregmant hane tare with Bap indaced RaP-metabolizing enzmes in fe $ tierue 2-3 fold. found in eoal car. edr ral oll, car exhaust, tobacce seoke. - a foode, ete. a In vitro stadice showed that ne tabolic activation of Bar ie required for ita intaraction with proteine and nuclele selde (2,3). Earller studien with rat liver pr eparations :4,5) and hanster liver mierosomes (6,7) shoved thas Bar le metahelised miniy 8 phenolie and dihydrodihyfroxy (diell derivatives, and to quinones which are ensynatie or air oxidation producte ot unstable phenolic metabolitas is'e) as wall an some unidentified nore polar metabolites. The metabolien ef Rat has generally been neamured A the production of 3-hydroxy- Bar (3-OR-Bar) shich je often one of the major metatolites in vitro a 3-0H- K-regton epowides of re la polycyelie aronatic hytrocarton train Tuled to cell-
sonos MAF inereanet to aure was cne of the nator mat
ntn R-hutronnnstal (3-CH-RAP - the natabolic yielda of 9.10
Danse (alpyrene (harl le a carcine and
mentat containt that in
DaP ie tosic te sultured calle (9) hut it show DNA in vitro (6) and has not been
listle interaction w th to be - arcinocenic. On the other hand,
1291
