RAP

AMERICANJOURNALOF
Public
Health

Editorial
Volume 77 Numbert
AMred I MD. MPH

May 1907 Established 1911

EDITOR Less Hazardous Smoking and the Pursult of Satisfaction
Cigairettes deliver drugs: al root smoking in drug laking Scentitic wurk 2
confirmed sin otine as a powerfully reinforcing psychoactive drug Fax the sue un
ASSISTANT EDETOR er. then; ulra low -yicid cigarcties raise the simple issue of drug cultang u
! J. Rothman, DYPH adulteration The unsalisfactoriness of ultra low yeld cigarenes 1 - 2 a at
population hased sample smuke cicarcties in the range, in mg ne
Mary F. I DPH uven 2ng € Despite the publicay about dinease naks a smuking and the wadespi
Chaiperson belief that ultra low yield cigarettes are less ha - must a à eul nu
Doris Bloch, RN. D-PH (1989) the sireet for these cigareties, les algne walk the advenused mule
No doube smokers have routincly ulura les yicle curareties in
Joy G. Dryfoos: MA (198) routincly have reiscied ihem a unsainslying A ma -
Manin un ! no (1988) deliven abant 80 per sent diluting air in sech ouf taken by ofhual smuking ma -
Frederick C. Green MD - Those smokers 1 learn the unchs of compensatory musung are mure bket h
persist in smoking these cugaresies tha are those soukers whe du not d -
sati clon compensation lechnuques For a low wad cugarenes. the
smoking leu hniques are i hing the daluting air venis on hiter - lipr 5
D Rogers, MD MPH (198) taking larger puffs, and at Maror and Forsmann . mum ws semply smus ang mane
Zena I MA MB (1989) cigarenes per dar A smokes sell arlectisen 1 icompe
Esosande M. Trevine, 2 Mm (1987) compensalors kavel may cause much of the discouraging ? - Lou un
Experimenual Evadens a Res en eapenmenis hus more en racin Dis
Joe I Wray, MD. MPH - of whar mught be ganed frum the wdespread use a altea lew >ield
amokers who refuse to Quit smoking Wesi er a randem - assigned 14
remair 1 theu own brand (average 1.3 me un ue 14 me a a 12 souke
STAFT le ch le an whra les yeld hrand a ma
H McBeash. MD. MPH smoking the ultra low yield group had plasma niste ne levels thal were unh * per
Eses - die DirecsoriManugins Editer cent of (he own hrand croue is 22 ngimi) -
Adneane Auh no * per cem ue - 11 ppm) LAlshough our aned : the Methud -
Pablications Darecar explicaly instructed not te hhlet hher ven IK West Pervonal -
Doyne I Simularly in the experimental cumponent ut thes en oun Hens
Aasistent Mamugng f panial compensati in smukers whe were forsed lu
Marva Barnen (Beha ora blucking of Alier wener a ner forbadden - shis Mudy bur mar hu
Edisorial Aasintant discouraged by delaals of the procedure .
The rombued lesson of the cross ses - surveyt and the forced a
Proder - f expenments is that a there is lo be ma aumal progress wath the unen sivle a
Derkens Dobbs yick cigarene as une Areds lo be ens couraged mora forcefully One ul the
thalAdyernising Ausulent smokery dun put up -uh ultra lue vebl a that hugher vel cigarenes dis
easy purchase away Imagine chasulate sover 3
desen sland sus candy mght veer srat bur - wrill slux - andi
oncudoc hes - would gather dust eapecially the were nue a ver
George - Aanas JD, MPH ihe more satislyng I al ales
ir cigareste manufacturers were requared lu make only fu Tu
(guarding against mure problema hlser desens 1 Iheve
arcaice effect on eapesures le smok 0. a01 2 the du in the - a
blocking vent holes and by smoking grealer number per day And me

of customers for these products even in calth
Maron and Fortmann in thit issue of the

Haur Cahfornia As nuted by
only - DE ent of

EOTTORIAL BOARD
- H. Huster ann (1967
Mary Grace Kevar, DMPH MS -
1 Passe. MD. MPH (190)
Julice A Waller MD (60611 eviewed an the
Philip G Weiler MD uses)

m nec ssuns

:
hnge
remair -
a
me tar a : 10 dus a
le et duflesed à
a alun
witra lum yick le
en
ih
2
mwh
cigareties
a
530

.

report

Michefle Honen
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS
à Heala and she La
I G Rosenhranta PhD
I 1 Then 1 Ne
1 H i MD. DxPH

I T E Fark a drug contens of medication: . Mnkily regulated su shund be Jrus ve a
Jean Connelky. MLS amoke Many smuken would over smarke these Esgarenes by breal ng of

5 F -

2501662717