HKR2228112

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO

13

January 3, 1977
Dr. William H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Rescarch roundation
715 Muir Lands Vista May
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. fishman:
and Salk.

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolia rescirch cocmunity In particular, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzynes
should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnrent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental
prublems is particularly irely. It will be o! o-at potential inportance for
pulling togetter wort, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation,
characteriztaion and deterniniation of the significance of hunan oncodevelopmenta
antigens such as alphafeteprotein and carcinuesbryonic antigens.
One of the aoals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship
of increased serusa concentrations of AFP to preralignant lesions or carcinogen
exposure in humans. Our studies on rats and mouse model svstors clearly derion-
strate tnet anirals pasodxa to hepatocarcinouens have eleva ted serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developrant of malionant tmers. It is hoped that systematic
study of human scra frum differest sources will determing if serus AFF concun-
In addition, the role of envirunnental factors such as hormonal influences on
the production of oncodevelojamental gene brj-hats car he further explored in
different sy:tens. Such data inplies tha! (la prod;ution of nicodave lopmental
gene product, by tunor cells is ne:t à fixed property of 2 given tumoir but is
We look foncard to working with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the inportant subject of ancedeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinosen exposure.

subject to enviroumestal controls.

express ion.
Best regards,
Stewart Sell. H.D.
Professor
SS/nb