996
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richard L. Nacye. MD, and Woodrow S. may var y in incidence and Somerect Counties of
Findings Dollinger, MS the men hnd ever
Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one pationt to another. In found to corrclate well with quantitative, measurements of a the volume of macules and nodules. recognition of cmphyscma and chronic cor miners with no roentgenographic with silica and collagen.
process but a a study of 77 miners of postmortem anatornic dioxide)and collagen content of dust évidence of pneumoconiosis had
rank, low-volatile coat in Cambrin and ryivania Nonc of eentral Pean- d ucted betwern 19re and 19-5 ly the Pennsylvanin Duportmeat of Miner and Mineral Industries stowed an silica cuntent of cval ant in low in all arenn nf Penneyina. . nekdom helng greater itan $.. H owever, the mine durt contentro t: in of free ailica In grester for sone u adergruunal wurkets Puch as nof la 4 de or enrounter ailleachearing The TT cases palverin - rand, selerted a te keand Kalapne ike ley authera, wherisited rach of ruven pirpose E -neral huspital, and rea. every aU- d protorul lavohed a man - than at yrara of age au di-d parumoroninsi. In twern 19GU aul his T'he is tu determine if parn- fe - rasen alarted with the hatch patinin sone workers withent asruriated Tu- U descriptions the lungs When ere was any nention of eve !re .ament, parenchy mul neduls . fina or any histury of mining the ti nt's elinical chart a I'n. eran.ind, a were esttuce A as inrludal in the. rtudy unly treupational espuarare crd- unel le specin. mines tarl nail and restine emation Irbeplame tim - - wasnhtained - mocaninus Nu a A Oelle > 2:3 027050
bituminous
coal, roentgenographic categories for
pneumuconiosis were anined anthracite roal, Survey eon- roentgenepraphic ing rhift of esposure jer werk- with dyspnea. A munber of ers, The fiee bituecines work-
nodules, and (2) the silica (silicon pulmonory dust macules and emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspnea in addition lo dust Trom 10: to 4G2 of Appalachian chitis and coal workers have rorntgeno- lur, graphic evidence of pneu- symptoms, and physiral findinge have been dificalt to make, early stages." erpecially in tions to disability. h is the Theau diniculties prob- of the current ably arie from the faet that roal workers pneumeconiosis ("black ographie fratures of lung") is not a single disenne prores Another aim but a composite uf multiple disorders, and neverity, dupendent upon gro enigenographic gruphie aren, extut occupat lanal à posure, and apparent individual sus- ceptibility. These nultiple 4
Unfertunately, there was poor
verage coal dunt d.
which appear to be most closcly correlated puhnonale, tlu tnu chsdrciers eale fout of uir 11,TU,URN fur parites per
matules
hronchiolitis;(.) crnirilubu. A Jters and eledrie Insonnsive panlolular, and paracleataicial : who drill inte sepurate di-en-e prireses tl. rough a search uf sunly tn evaluate thir L a ruentgen- abnormalities Patients Studiod and Methods frum Penns hania and West Vir- ginia, Thir:y-one had lew-rank nearly nerthern E. Vir,in.ia TL. ether ai had alway, mine d higher PUBLICATIONS
meconlosin, hut en relatiuns belween emphysema: und (3) tuberruluilin aul such roontgenugraphie abnormalitics, orusionally other di : processes.
These
appear to make ditfering reitailau. a individoul infuences nu the
that a
each of which may vary in inridenre muconiunis with disalility eaina in girts
ordes indude(lithe primary coal dust Patirnts, The patients were - un nr. information
maculu; (2) oilivasiss (3) ehrunic laton- dergruanel miners of hitumittoue enal lie and uthr data enterning nopa
Feam the nu nf lagann Pat-be Min . C. Hanty Stedecal nis, Reprim , - : Crales Herda, A tiuu d'e 1 JAMA, Apral or 1972 . Vol 220, 2
mined utwaye sual in runties
I Celti Cullege . : - i Buns..hunis -retery State of suthn high-vulatib eatern
Ponneshania ur in tu: irmud hy : Imrilde I-ta
10346287
