SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H. ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
P. Collopy, M.E., C.LH.
et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire The sympioms were more common .a build-
In a cross-sectional investiganion in one building. office buildings built aver the last 50 years with a validased were measured on e linear analog scale questionnaire. stui where the ventilation system also provided cooling and Ar the same aime, the micro-environment (environmental humidification. irrespective of the abe of the I A characteristics in the breathing zone rather than area direct relationship berween the level of complaints and air samples) a characserized by measuring temperanure, quality parameten : nos described. Skov et al. (1967) ex- relacive humidiry, respirable suspended perticulases, car. amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern [ bon dioxide, noise level, lighaing insensiry, relacive ha tomm halls and 11 older control buildings A level of symp midiry, and airflow. No relationship - seen benween toma was related to . "Neecing" factor (carpets, upholstery. the degree of symptoms and age. educarion. or durasion and horizontal surfaces) sad the "macro-moleculer compo of employment at the building or nime spent in the build- nent" of dust. They aho demonstrated a relationship between Shr on a daily basis. Starisnically, complainss were the number of houn spent photocopying and using carbonles significansly more frequent among Suppous men. Eavi- copy paper and the level of complaints. Other srudies bave ronmensal characteristics associased wish dhe increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et a 1985) complaint levels in this group included decreased airfow and prychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute models, chere was an association berween respirable a cause of complaints le the sick building syndrome by - pended parriculases and the levels of boch mucous mam suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et brane and rystemic complaints. Satisfaction wish the F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. I environment as predicted by percepaion of dreft ferences la the concentrations of eaviroamental polutant did 2 clearty contribuse a she degree of symptoms, berween rooms in a mechanically and a naturally veutilates mudies of the sick building syndrome I examine ples measuring dust and a "macro-molecular" fraction.
complains associared with the "sick building syndrome
velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended a to indoor air quality complaints.
riculases and dry-bulb semperature. In regression although regression models E suggest R comy were nos independent of thermal paramesers. insensiry d also associated 1 complaints. Fu L measures to idenaify predicsors of complaints in
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual building. They studied the rooms with the I comple rates and used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did demor strate relationship between symptoms and both Area samples in buildings may nor X representative of the exporures in different points in single rooms. Physical characteristics 1 a windows and partitions, computen. and shelving may infuence air currents. Radiant beat mar different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroo
area -
I exposures simultaneously and inctude psycho in a samples.
indoor I INTRODUCTION
Complaints termed the d building syndrome" bave lead to unevea distribution of pollutants. Finally. mow a led to pumerous investigations in the last is years. a are hutants resuh from point souroes, so they will B diluted as thought o occur primarily a newty constracted otice baild- subject .m farther removed from the soarce. A micro * inp and, at least in the past, were thought to be & to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very wide variety of causes have been identibed in specifle settings, ment of a building. In addition. all applied occupational and inctuding inadequate semperature and relative bumidity coo- environmental health rescarch 2 attempes to relate dose o trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds beakb effects suffers from the problem that doee a penerally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, enviroamental sobecco measured = several points in time and then extrapolated a smoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications a decades spent and contaminated air and boiler fumes. fibers released while most health effects are measured as a single resuk of from duct linings. and a machine offgases a odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sam A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to hour, such stratep must fail (Robertson et al. 1985) was unable to identify differences to attempted to characterize air-quality parameten in the micro wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (temper- eavironmeat and set these characteristics in relacion o the ature), relative humidity. air velocity, formaldehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at - pven point in i This itive or negative ions berween several rooms in a building report presents results of cros-sectional investigation of a with natural and a building with mechanical ventilation. problem building using a self-administered, tinear analog. where both sets of room had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom * I a Amisam Profemor of Mediane and ol Induscrial and Enviroomental Heakh Scences at the Unrveruty of 3 of Medicine and Publec Heahh. 'd f a Director. Enviroomental Heahh and Safery. Camepe-Mellon Univerury. Pitsburgh :
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem,
(Kreiss and Hodpson 1964; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986). marily to mechanical ventilation A same proup of acthors
results is greater than the difference la average samples, No investigations in the peer-reviewed literature have
Schoot
S
