LOS ANGELES TI:ES Los Angeles, California October 20, 1954 been proved, lale I'niversity
hairil uudn the premine that hination n' a partirular type nect lon hetween rica- in each of : three Categories moking and disease ha: has alrcady produced a sale Might Take Six Months one it is. so all can be made Dr. a Cuyler Hammond thar way. 11 not, the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Clarence Cook Little. compiete statistica! Spms to chairman of the scientife ad date, said that "some say we visnrv board and seient fic di. should wait for more defini rector of the Tobarro Indus- tive evidence before develop- try Research Committee. de. ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would one has said just what the de. produre some of "the defni- finitive evidence weud be." tive evidence' in ech Dr Hi sad he "took issue" with Hammond referred. In his Talk in the Ameriran "We wiil tackle simultan system was more important, line of the industry research migh: prove surcessfal in six do not have todav the experi- months, with iuck." he said menta! evidence that : per- tobarce, he said, and le may The most important procect
cigarette If so scientific re- search should prove which should find one, "since ple like to smoke cigarettes. scribed the outlines nf stud- Tackle Unknewns
Expert Calls 'Safe Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming NEW YORK Ort. 19 (1LP)
for
atatistician
-oad
this viewnoint.
The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Societs meeting. Dr eously mans of the unknowns arette smoking with hath Hammond said the relation- in this feld of tobaccn use in lung cancer and heart dis. ship of cigare:te smoking to relation to human health, he ease is "overw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint 2 public program. "We seek definitive once about developing "a safe health. than the relationshin findings in ue area where cigarette." leading statisti- to lung cancer A program to much suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find "a safe cigarette from been done. The program nf tific advisory board of the There are various types of garding the raure and efert Tobacco Industrv Research lahacen, there are varinus relationship hetween en rom. Committee ansounced some of types of Alters, and these are mental factors including
the viewpoint of the heart the bnard Outlines Deseribed
that we recognizes mit scientific conclissions re. smokine and lune cancer aet up was diree: udv a current lung cancer rase: a 10 medical centers im:le : n I ed States and Canada,
meeting cf the American Cancer Society today. At the same time the scien-
the details nf Sts scicatife re arinna techn'ques n! curing
srarch program which is he thar
some fortuatous com- LOS ANGELES EXAMINER los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
It will include numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokera, an well as teste on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. à apecifia research grants, financed by the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY ON TOBACCO YORK, Oct. 19, LE < broad stx point study seek Ing lanowledge whether eigareta or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health baz. ards was announced today. It la the first announcement of big research program headed by the selentifie ad. visory board of the Tobacco In dustry Research Committee
NEW
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
