DALLAS MORNING NEWS
Dallas, Texas
April 14, 1954

Tobacco Firms
New Cancer
NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing
Industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers.

Ask
Studies
growers and tobacco
tional" statements linking smoking Among those paponb by the com.
and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer
Inatitute of the United States Gov-
relationship of ernment, which said h a 1953 k
cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of lung cancer
for exhaustive research to estab- had not been established. Several
lish the basic cause of the disease. ot the institute's scientista also
The tobacco industry research were cited.
Others quoted were the Damon
issued a booklet 003- Runyon Fund, which called for
taining previously published state- more research, and
ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgeon Dr. Max Chicago Cutler, who
itles doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons may
by other cancer experts that tobac- deveiop lung cancer partly because
of smoking but that to
The earliest, whitten in 1923, said conclusion of a direct relationship accept
there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientitic and
none that would produce tuinors. hazardous.
The most recent, dated last March JI. smoke in the lungs were a
16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of
be done before causes of lung can- have had it long ago," cancer, the
cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Coole report
The tobacco committee, formed Memorial
en January te combat mounting bor, Maine. Laboratory, Bar Har-
charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the
up of nearly every major cigarette University of Texas School of Medi-
manufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Inaur

alded picture of the
committee

Can-
à
we'd all
Jackson

co causes tung cancer.

can be established.

director of the Roscoe B, Little,
ance Company and British authar-
ities, Nearly alt those quoted
agreed that no conclusions çould be
reached until an absolute cause for
lung cancer has been established
The report was described by an
industry spokesman as 5 "in-
terim" statement, pending an-
nouncement of the choice of a
prominent scientist to
basie cancer
supervise
research to be f-
nanced by the industry. That scien-
tist wall decide how the industry's
cancer-research money is to be
spent. No date has been set for his
selection.
At the last count, the committee
said, there were more than 850
cancer research grants in the
United States alone,
which
"any one of
might produce evidence to
unlock the secrets of lung cancer,

01