True-raise Questions 8 the Chenistry and Psychophys Tology of Odor and Flavor 1. H F Sone nodorn workers suggeat that nocurnte mensurement of vibrational frequency (in the for intrared, for exanple) of an unknown odorant will permit prediction of its quallty and intensity. T . No lemental substance, not even halldes or ozone hos any odor; Instead they react with the mucosa fonning new products whlch are smelled; buf Sone odorants have sterle or vibrational propertles which force the concluslon that they are odor less whon they are not 11, a F Present evidence strongly suggests thet different parts of the olfactory receptor ares, Ilke the retina In the eye, are que ilty-spocific. TF Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor T No one yet has a - clue as to the critical reletion between the molecule and the receptor which permits an odor perception. T The greater the secretion rate of mucous or sallve, the higher thelr pH, and both pti and temperature influence the quality of sensation in the 111 H F The ideal Instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sane quantitative range as does an animat or human sub ject. 1 - Such an Ideet detector has not been developed. > : Haman observers with head In fixed position can by virtue of the two indopondent nostrils ensily discern stereo suoll effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier a odorant Is at the right or left hand, much os one uses his tue ears in locating the source of sound. TF For certaln musk-liko compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger - hunon offactory response. Adeptation ou one olfactory qunlity does not significantly reduce sensitivity to any other dissimilar quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all siallor qualities. - By enploying simi larities nethod of compering qualitles, one con now obtain identity and degroes of difference without recourse 2 troshlo- a T Hunger louers thresholds stightly to some food qualltios but not for TF in is now possible to ioentify the Intensity and quality of certain given stimull sinply by expert examination of the electrophysiologicel record taken from approprlate oder or taste neuroos TF Electrical stimulation of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkaline" quality. H F Direct electrical stimulatlon of the olfactory se a has successfully accompilshed. Although total anosela is rare In humons and ageusia even rarer, there Is evidence that in analogy to color vision deficiences, sone are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while having norma sensitivity to others. Toplcal anesthetics applled to the tongue . he nu that different que Itles - Certain endocri ine disense entitles make It possible for some people quite sensitively to "smell" such "odor less" substances 09 sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to noceet by manipulation of endocrine levels. - Promenopause wonen at the time of ovulation find certain odors disegreeable whlle at other rimes In the menstrunt cycle these 1 de or
sone elements possess taste.
surface In order to be see led.
chemical senses.
v.
sone words. others.
yer beon people
VII,
50297
of taste disappear at different rates.
they wlu Judge quite pleasant.
