ATINGIRIGHT

New! Improved! Dangerous?

4F!AI More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium, Experts Fear Taxic Reactions

U, Laraasue Lasuna
Fovel a The dindinglen Rar
hund e onreal -
A ravone
huchtine ham - cheese sund-
en and . couple of wegetables topped with
morgprine, holluwed ar day audivita BREAKFAST
min : pill kr nutritional "inmanoe,
The, while watching TV le the evesing
talteup (olay a cup) A ke oreun Sounds - a palchr-fored Minte Mald orance alde
pentty rensonable, ridu?
Actually. depending on the trands you LUNCH
dasite Juca dan's nacers corld net sou he Humand chees de
tween 300 and 35000 milligrams ot cald
am sigaticantly me thas à Tolerable
Upper latake Level" of 2,500 milligans set
lor the the National Aradeng et Scimes AFTERNOON SNACK
(NAS) Sin many foodie are how fortitial with
calelum that a fias beeome mach esasker wa
over the safety lealt Aut due hus some EU DINNER
withon cosseder concermed
"Ar wth anything. ke 1 ons be
stes Richard Wood, chiet of the
prubless Noavnilabity Labomtory an the
Houn Nutrition Research Center a Thits
University in Boeton. The wiadow between
aptimal intale and the upper limis & reder
alv mall a Indeed, the Patequate intale
stafitabet by the NAS a 1,000 to 1,300 lep Drean Calelum Ru vatilia ke cream
Tigrama das depending an agn, Oitr twice dest maristad - Glant and Safeeal
that "yunone and your ve reachod the sadety
ording Hur marg other cutrionta, Mard TOTA
lave ba incrome the adequnte intake EITE
timer hefore maching risky levela
What can happes a you take in toe mach
caleium over time? Wond suon theme have
beun San the order a 130 cax reports" of cal
ciun
toukity, which can mauiles karle a 6 ligram
pertaps daie - d ther hmetion.
the mlacrul a can
catied,
Mone furmation,
Magedackar
dued rine balane
- ne

mush more calsium the a bund of da
wal enntalaed 300 to 400 natilignms of de
OI course, - Purdur's Winer, Sur pen
niw retting nely 201 le 400 milleprams
de calckurg daits the coreal 1 a le us
Ad. And a lot of people do 01 oub far
1 Wood ameurn - you dont brink
milk, your calrium comunption de alant
300 le 400 milligrams dar he wys
* a rule of thumb people sbocki
wish the exocption of Ileancy, though de
res archera agrée that it's salest aot tr wat
GAUN ines than 2.500miligramsed fenk
daily, regandhes a variations e absorption
ratca "Count un Woaver ways. - -
pure ne sening adw 2.500
Wod myn that atayling withla de tinit *
partindar concern in houschulla withu -
modeur trying de Mint mone calcium and ha
teenage son who already grts plents he
sber dint of the umount of food he eats shr
might In - clamartititiod ouange julce, al
cinn fortatied 3 cereal and an an. but
bo gasdes milk n hee ou a the antaiged
- fexehalt practire A I N couple et
bowts A eched a an after-schout snac *
could & be
thousands of
La
atung
Ngams ofcalchuas
Wiad and other reseerchers abe aumey
dhat an best 40 get your calcium from a nan
etr of fisods rather thin 000 or two heavily
furtified ance and dut a kout soure of de
should come foom sulk and other dairy
Eroad
wota. "ffisturigly. Wower expluin,
apt eho have lace deficient in radcium
U
lern low in magesitm, ribolavin, vitamin
1 vitamia DE 1 mailable a mik
was kind a oneatop shupplasg ke
panver
that fil with hid concentra
ton meverned
Jamen Floet minel rescarcher at Pur
proterted aut be
compartalice
And it's weaknod hy ane Selle vitamin

A Calcium-Fortified Day
3/4 ap Total paced
sup catcumlatioti Wied akin -
E
2oe an
lo deies dhoese
Wardue Inglia I
Nate Gon bar
ea aklaless chicken Last
1/2 oup hroccol topped with
to Shelds Semad Courn Crock Pha Cakek
baind potate, tapped with
a the Sheafs Seread Country Ruck Plus.Caloins
parmarkevishandurapt
EVENING SNACK
he -

The enicium mecommendation fir teenagre is 008"1 milligrams: adults 10 age 9
L.000 unilligrams: and aduls Slelus, 1.200 milligrais. Het with the douens of
ealciura dontifiet foods on the market an ase to comsante den

mineral,
mone 2,500
weLtinen or CALERA entomes
L000
110
350
10
know
300
120
272
o
150
110
200
a
21
-
162
600
260
30
1,487
MARA
prople Wiewer

a

today,

sid follawed E a sand. r la the millignum a Tulerable Upper Intake lost 1 Le the Nathal Acading of
late aftormon. A4 dimer, nome hefor chick Seleunen wun se diet of only vogr calurion Check eut the hulluming uwm

un aral Bue Metaboli-m Lab at Tulla, this package of mutrinte N - a a
ecreal. "Thars an exceasive dend ether substanes fnen coldisem forthled

fhom disuinens and wolt tivue cakification Othee - that calcium fortifet fixode autons She alw queatlone the LAX mil H : lacle mant difina ar I a a
The Minin made a andt thue, 14hun, be an cesonable eption - favor the conorpt llamams of calctum new I to every wrw inx de a cakium bet IKA arcesurily dee
Thon. ton, hypercalcenala, as tosiclay ef Onuha. Aad a Wind, bes not partic an anprecendented kvel, probably higher Irwin Rosenberg. directur of the Nutri-
have had stome parkkulanly the port Ton marh code wten cosume lots nore than Ithel 111 N, L a A the quicka a the hody's absorption tim a single nutrient win bet people into
an can ade roduce abaurytion ef twe other daims Some populations whe degend on a a cald ute A will absorb -iore calcium it thinking ther re nourishiug thenelves ade
entialminerabe trou and rine, the fatter et lanedy en dury diet. sach an cowberds in you hure dirkted doses thruughont the diw quately. "Yon dont get of the hok of -
Mich h accopary for wouud braling and Base Alrica and the Lapps whe hurd roindeer 4 Y Thad's wder popk whe ube 600 a praleur dictary cholces beause jut 2
pruper feactioning a the ismune antern in northern Scandinavia, "typically et 6,000 maillipans worth of caleium upplements pickedone ue teu heavily fortified fuods a
uperusarket sbelves rabes the Hur intance, Breyer's is num tor market [ thit the cakian in the vereal de Fr dennity is a strenghened la excrdan," he
Nut thit Wood thinks enk cium-liertified 31 calchm per tuteup inatead of the typical every 300 miligrame et raleium comumed an E is necessary for calclum absorp
I area bad thing. "ithink ther K good 100 mitigrams, and Heancy remarks, Tve (the amount le a om of mok the hode ab thin- end pertaps by toe much sodjun aod
E be waya. Avengen intakes are apuch mised focling on the juck fand situa worbs 100 mitigrams, de runghly 30 peecent. calicine. Bod wuinlances wurk du flech the
he - wwen an le a yeare set averup Adde Conale Vilienver onlchum lavestica Che abrarption rate mon I a you hrve A other mnda, 09 Houng pate it. "
only about 7ue milligrums et caldem dag tor at Pardue Univernity in Weat Laigette, Shree fo four cupe : milk in one - um h onb ene part of the I 2 he
whim they shoukl la curtivaming 1.000 mit hed Tdhate to ane people - the pas 1 cuntains about 1.000 milliganuna 1 case you ve 1 lat a Total doesn
Terauan And wanen as la older, whe needingtogel ginos calciun loeat lota dwiallics to 11 poremt about 150 a moan you à comed all à howes
leg in ouly about lell det a - ir a alm problem whila making another ane (pres ome arrving mpplice 1,000 nailligrama, yeu Bating Rishr cobunnier Laamena
sitent inne an the ande a a a : unil die Dane Hischen, chief of the Cald inother minle yur à met nharbing tembly Uwieervity Heafth du Nidriti

purticululy winemblir, he romarks, and a fortificution, siss Robert Heaney.a calici

um researcher at Creighton University ir fortification, stur commenta, - certalnir fooda

à

- ularty concerned allowt anyoed I Lover than le ang oshur cadcium furtalled Sood, Hon 10cwarch Center at Tuta isparticularly

people whe D "There ard lote ol very healthy

ha Jatace reser rvations, be

- had study a net ermopausal won te 00074 milligans el onleiam per le and de are advinel te mallone thein twa 300 -
e Wian reporta Highealeiom dicts ne haw "absolutely no problems, be - miligram pills a different nacals
While sach penblems bave beeu rar unda about wblet foods the misserst creservatkons ought to condedind hisoulubablity testing Aue Total's wour bones
dirvet of theia beaming more common ine le mam thet contalon 300 mitigrans 1 ant a wellas theenklura in mals. Hes
shand he atetting 13300 mitilerame an tak a Git and calories. Then you're solving one ligrams, at the - with the Total Since

Phr he andothers do have sowe

Heen a denstrated the point wthen he de priste ont tue thet nat dost - have
prodwer, General Mals On one hand, cause 1 re grting a of cudduni. a
Hut a the oddum a # ma iarr - mineral from the bals via the urinc
ahsorb seh abuet 160 or thm, Heaney - Lininer conntine edites 5 à

SUW, the plethura A calcium Mortitied Reum added to
ewh lown dun the recomanendations F LE

au dory for men althorngh the a for them rece of obesityl I