LOS ANGELES TIES Los Angeles, California October 20, 1954 & been proved, ale U'niversity
haieil upon the premise that hination n' a particular type nnection hetween riex in each of the three categnries smnking and disease has has alrrady produred 'a sale Might Take Six Months one t is, so all can be made Dr. 3 Cuyler Hammand that way. = not, the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Clarrnce Cnok Litte. compiete statistica! study to chairman of the scientifc ad- date, said tbat "some say sre vianry board and scientific di should wait for more defini reetor of the Toiarro Indus ing a sale cigarette. but no ies which he helieves would nne hae said just what the de prndure some nf the defni finitive evidence weud be." tive eviderce' tn waich Dr à sand he "took issue" with Hammond referred. In nis talk 1n the American "We wiil tackle system was more important, line of the
Calls Safe Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link le Overwhelming
cigarette os3t seientific re- search should prove which should find "since one, peo- ple like to smoke cigarettes. try Research Committee de- seribrd the outlines nf stud- Tackle U'nknewns research industry's program "We seek definitive
Expert for
atatistician
tive evidence before develop
NEW YORK Ort. 61 (LPI this iewnoint
The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eously many of the unknowns simultan arette smoking with b 0 - h Hammond sairt the relation- in this field of tobacen lxe in lung cancer and heurt dis- ship of rigare:te smoking to relation to tuman health, te case is "overw helming' and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- onee about develoning "a safe health. than the relationship findings in an area where cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer. 1 program to much suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find a safe cigarette from been done. The nrogram nf Tobacco Industrv Research inhacen, there are varinus relationshin hetwnen ens ron- Cummittee ansounced some of types 2 fiters, and theze are mental factors, includ f a the details nf R xeicatife re Varinus terhn'ques n! curing The most
something should be done at from the standpoint of public
the viewpoint ef the heart the bnard reongniges that we prove surceastul in six dn not have todav the experi- months, with luck," he said mental evidence that wil per- ie tobaren, he xaid, and in may get was important nrnceet
meeting of the American migh: Cancer Society today. At the same time the scien- tife advisory board of the srarch prngram 1 h
Outlines Deserihed are There varinus types nt he thar some fortuntors rnm- up LOS ANGEIES EYAVINES Los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
mit scientifc ennci:unns PA. garding the raune anri rfert smokine and lune cancer a diree: acudy nf current lung cancer raset n 10 medical centers in the : nr ed States and Canada.
It will Inelude numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of amokers, as well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspeets ef the research were disclosed today. The specitio research grants, financed Aq the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY NO TOBACCO NEW YORK. Oct. 19 i A broad stx-point study seek Ing kmowledge whether eigareta or other forma of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards was announced today. It in the first announcement of a big research program headed Ag the selentifie ad. visory board R the Tobacco In dustry Researeh Committee
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
