$6/58
Peptide Hormones. Growth Factors. and Soma H (ed): Placenta: Basic Research for Clinical Applicaton Int. Conf. on Placenta. Tokyo, 1990. Basel. Karger, 1991, pp 105-114 Isolation of a Xenobiotic Metabolizing Cytochrome P-450 (P-450sok) with No Aromatase Activity from Placental Microsomes of Both Cigarette-Smoking and Yoshio Osawa. Tadavoshi Higashiyama Kenji Shimizu' Endocrine Biochemistry Depanment, Medical Foundation of Buffalo Rescarch Insttute. Buffalo. N.Y., USA
Placental Proteins
Nonsmoking Mothers Nobutako Yoshida
COPY
FILE
The presence of different monooxygenase activities has been docu- mented in human placental microsomes. The predominating cysochrome P- 450, that of androgen aromatase, catalyzes the biosynthesis of estrogens (1). Aromatase P-450 has been the object of numerous studies to determine its mechanism of action and to purify it [2, 3). Gough et a [4) reponed the presence of another enryme system which catalyzes the hydroxylation of xenobiotic substances. It has also been repored that a placental cytochrome P-450 is responsible for the hydroxylation of benzofa)pyrene via aryl hydro- carbon hydroxylase [5-7). The low content of the responding cytochrome P. 450 in human placenta and instability during purification have made it difficult to isolate any other active P-450 enzyme. As a side benefit gained from our procedure to purify and characterize catalytically active aromatase P-450 tcl we found a fraction from the immunoafnity chromatograph; which showed a high level of xenobiotic activity with little contaminating aromatase activity. Through the use ofconvensional purifcation procedures. we obtained a xenobiotically active P-450 with no aromatase activity. Previous studies on aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity have demon- strated higher levels of this activity in amokers but not in nonsmokers (8, 16 "Postdoctoral Research Fellows On leave from tbe Department of Obsteinci and
Gynecology. Okayami Univernty Medical Scnool. Okayama. Japan
PUBLICATIONS
028242
