BOULDER DATLY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

- a 4

Area stores

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For tha Delly Camera
nors.
kids.
ke

referring to the Increased enforce-
penally Tur selling tobacco108 ml-
tried t buy Uie cigarelles. The

mont.

Doulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky orq8nous
nesses this week during a crack. getcaught were issued asummons
down on selling cigarettes to mi- to appoar 5 court. 1 The maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve -horis DOZSR fine.
of- the American Cancer Soclety's The vung involved two toams.
Great American Smokecut was in- Each included a uniformed omcer.
tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain ciothes amcer. and two
legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School girts, Who
Police targeted gas stations, con. giris' parenis signed a waiver al.
vénience, drug, grocery and dis lowing Uiemla talce partin ihc.op
"lay has never Beer enforced, said The "luvenlles woro told not to
Jopinog Policc Ollicer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
iWe're lerting the stores know had to show identification.

'count Blores. Unuil recently, the eration.
this is going to happen, ahc sald,

the cigarettes. and, if asked, they
(See BOULDER, Page 3C)

Boulder police sting stores :

à
:

for

sales

cigarette
(From Page (JT

to minors
The clerk at Colony Market,.

At the Conoco station, 3000 2620 Broadway, began to. cry,
28th Sk, one of the giris asked when she WAS ksller slm-
the cashinr for a pack of Mart mons, oys Eald a was a atur: e
boro Lights. Omcer Reb Hauke- "dent and couidn't RON thit
ness, In plain clothes, stood In court Costs. HAukeness pep1 a1
-iinabehind her to witness thc boagole her, saying she could-
A placard near the caih regis- the Distriet Attomey to do com 2.
ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice inatrad.of paying
No 'af No Sale, No Way." The the Mne,
clerk asked to see somo identifi- The clorks, not the store
The buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the,
drlver's license, which showed court coste.
sha WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don't do lt to
cd at the license, act it down on stores or clerks, she said. punish.
and sold har the though, when you see clerks
After they left, Haukenees Roulder Polica targeted 15:
stepped da and identified him alorca and clei ks aLailbut four
celf 0s a police officer. Manka recelved summonses.
came In and wrote the clerk a Thie wock's
I see them ask for an year. The first sting, condueted
E I think they're going to à in September, targeted 16 stores
fuse the cale," Haukeness sald. and ST clerks received sum:

transaction.
cation.
counter.
the
cigarettes.
summons
"When
"But they never do."

prubably work out a deal-with-.

à
own,
"Al-

ing, you might think otherwise. ciyc
operation was the.
punass tobacco sale stine mns

monses.