..

34/n/s

MHT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Nr York Timer Servier

wan bought 5.1 billion American- Ametican cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars a

made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even in recent

($2.86) compared with 22
panies B advertise on TV after

TAIPET The Marlboro COw. up sales of $119 million. In 1986, trade talks between the United  Tuiwan dollans (79 cents)for a
boy in his white hat, cigarette F sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- States and Taiwan Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghing from his mouth, has come le eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly lM shieng Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis
town. His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered a ing s Japan are more liberal. Com-
guitar-playing. jeans-clad promot. Indeed, Asian sales accounted pive out - cigarettes and gifu," an aggressive campaign Television
This frenetic, fast-growing 0a- cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawed in the United States in 1971.
tioe of nearly 20 million pcopie hy because both Tuwan and Japan school students - 12, years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-standiog restrictions. are DOw smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry a label that,
pibstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exports of like that? It's O.K. to have cigareties them sake of health, don't smoke 10o
made is America, not Taiwan. E American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" - a warning much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy a $16 billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $i billion in new sales the United States. But those people mandated in the United States.
Wacturers have essentially intro- In Japan, which has . population are just like robbers. If you are a Tbe companies say Amenican
duced cigarette advertising to the of 120 million and where people 'urt - human being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling wellin Taiwan

And mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.

out this city. next to posters of a peroent.
er of Winston cigarettes.

"They to amusement places to 5:50 P.M. and are now conducting

for most of the growth in American R said recently. "Many scbool- advertising of cigarettes was out-

year and for the first time, E According lo the Brown & Wu- rette companies promote

roughly translated. says, "For the

ialand, and tbat has created . furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year that.
Government officials bave accusod imports have more than tripled
ing teen-agers e take da moking. more than 0 percent last
operation that had monopolized percent by 1992.
.preseure from Washingion. In the alcobol.
a cigarettes were dropped. sales sid Jaw Shau-kong a
wacturers at - time when sales in and
the Unitod States are way down
laws in
way up.
According the U.S.
o1

not s much because of the adver.
manufactut- tising as because they are of better
thing wrong with the wn) they are cigaretier are made of blended to
bacco and bave less tar than Tai
products and their say waacie cigarettos which are not

American
cigarette
year,
their

tbe American
both deny.

the past year. The market share 2E
from 3 percent 5 1986, and the promoting

companies of entic American cigarettes increased 5 6 vigorously deny there ia any- quality and taste better. American

* charge the American companies
tised, altbough it does now,

Department of Agriculture pro- thry have no plans to change
American pressure a open their have they pusbed sodo so, they saY.

blendod.

The Roreraneol-adelouured dicts that it could grow to 15 8 20 sales pitch.

Tbey are not alowod to advertise
ln small stores where cigareties are
tions. Cigarette manufacturers may

the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials say tbey rosent lo0 television or s newspapert Nor
The government agreed to allow markets to producta that endanger Tbey can advertise only through
otbers into tbe business only under people's health. like citarettes and posters hung near cigarette racks or
year since stiff restrictions on for. "This really burts our feelings, sold, a well a through promo-
e American cigarettes in Taiwan Jo. tbe United Suates docs legisiator not en- also place 120 ada . year in I
have soared, generating much- courage its people to smoke, why zines, cach o whosc droulation sel-
peaiod Browth for American man- export 1f Taiwan? Younger people dom cxoceds 200,000.
and (be number of anti-smoking Causc of American ada. They hire rettes aocounted for lca than 1
asbrt o Aghoulture, poople B. Tal- difficult for funak boys to resist, 70,000 retail oullets licenaed lo sell

femalcs are smoking a lot be Before last year, foreign ciga-
young attractive 19-year-ol girla cent of tbe market Taiwan
luuran short skirts 91 rive P dig- posed strict quotas on
Depart- arettes (ree in nightclube. ks a cigarettes, banoed imports at a
and then it becorns 4 habit. It's cigarettee and imposed stiff tariffs.

&4
forciga

immoral."

: rorult imported cigaretie cost

$/9000SZ
1/