14A-Contra Costa Times

Sunday, October 6, 1991

-

EDITORIALS

Curbing tobacco use
Patchwork of local laws spread public call for govemment action?
no way to fight smoking writing their Own smoking ruies is that
county and city anti-smoking or- smoking is restaurants as of May '1 That
dinances like the ones adopted by means peopie who like to smoke while
the Contra Costa and Alameda County dining will simply go to the next town to
Certainly. evidence of the many dan- not comply with the current rule, which
gers of smoking is overwhelming. Tobac- requires restaurants to reduce smoking
co is the leading preventable cause of sections to 25 percent or less of avallable
death, killing more Americans than all seating. How many more will close when
other drugs, AIDS, murder, suicide and smoking is banned altogether?
threat to fetuses and a significant con- less restrictive But it still creates rules in
tributor to a host of diseases. Even sec- unincorporated areas of the county that
ond-hand smoke threatens non-smokers. treat businesses differendly trom those in
But as evidence about the threat of most of the cities and towns.
smoking mounts. there has been a corre- To their credit. both Contra Costa and
sponding increase in public and private Alameda counties have taken aim at
reaction against tobacco, making govemn. vending machines. banning them in ar-
The fact is that fewer and fewer peo- county has made allowances for ma-
pie are smoking or putting up with smok- chines using technalogy thatean prevent
ers. Businesses have responded by creat- them from being operated biy minors.
ing separate smoking sections in affices, Efforts 03 prevent children frombuy-
Many private businesses have banned officials should better accommodate the
smoking in work areas. Smoking bans latest technology and thereby lessen
haye long been in place in theaters, ele- the financial impact on vendors.
And the trend is to further restrict and non-smoking diners. There a no rea-
smoking in areas open o0 the public to son for local governments 00 interfere
Businesses are well aware of the public working against smoking.
Why, then, should county and city es, treat everyone on an equal basis and
governments feel obligated 0) compose protect people from unwanted second-
restrictive smoking ordinances of their hand smoke make far more sense than a
own. particularty when there is no wide- patchwork quilt of local ordinances.

The probiem with cities and counties
they create inequities and confusion.
For example, Walnut Creek will ban,
eat. Already, one restaurant in that city
has been forced to close because it could -
The new Contra Costa ordinance is

o we really need a patchwork of
supervisors and the city of Walnut

Creek?

car accidents combined. It also is a

ment intervention less urgent.

eas accessible to minors. But neither
ing cigarettes are admirable. But public
Also, smoking ordinances should al-
low restaurants to cater a both smoking
with market forces that already are
Statewide smoking laws that accom-
modate legitimate interests of business-

restaurants and other public areas.
vators, auditoriums and other en-
protect people from tobacco smoke.
concern about second-hand smoke and
have acted eccordingly.

closed places.