DALLAS MORNING NEWS
Dallas, Texas
April 14, 1954

Tobacco Firms Ask
New Cancer Studies
NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing growers and tobacco
industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers.
tional" statements linking smoking Among those quoted by the com-
and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer
alded picture of the relationship ef Institute of the United States Gov-
cigarettes and bealth and called ernment, port that the which said in a 1953 re-
research to estab- not been established. Several
lish the basic cause of the disease. of the institute's scientista also
The tobacco industry research were cited,
committee issued a booklet 000- Runyon Others quoted were the Damon
previousty published state- more research, and
ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgeon Dr. Max Chicago Can- who
ities doubting or decying claims said a few sensitive persons Cutler, may
by olher cancer experts that tobac- deveiop lung cancer partly because
The earliest, whitten in 1923, said conclusion of 4 direct relationahip
there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientific and
none that would produce tumnors. hazardous."
The most recent, dated last March "It smoke in the lungs were a
16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of
be done before causes of lung can- have had it long ago," cancer, the
cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report Little,
The tobacco committee, formed Mernorial Laboratory, Bar Har-
5 January to combat mounting bor, Maine.
charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the
up of nearly every major cigarette University of Texas School of Medi-
nanufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Inau

for exhaustive
taining

had

cause of lung caneer
Fund, which called for
ot smoking but that to accept the

8 causes lung cancer.

we'd all

can be establisbed

director of the Roscoe B. Jackson
ance Company and British authar
itles. Nearly alt those quoted
agreed that no conclusions çould be
reached until a absolute cause for
lung cancer has been established
The report was described by an
industry spokesman as an "in-
terim" statement, pending an-
nouncement of the choice of a
prominent scientist to supervise
basic cancer research to be 8-
nanced by the industry. That scien-
tist will decide how the industry's
cancer-research money is to be
spent. No date has been set for his
At the Jast count, the committee
said; there were more than 850
cancer United research grants 5 the
States alone, "any one of
which might produce evidence to
unlock the secrets of lung cancer,

selection.

-