Truefal Ise Questions S the Chenistry and Paychophyslelog, of Odor end Flevor 1. T - Sone nocern workers suggest that accurate seasuresent of vibrational frequency (In the far intrared. for example) of an unknown odorant will pernit prediction of Its quality and intenslty. T No elenontal substance, not even he lides or ozone hes eny odor; Instead they react with the mucosa forning new products which are smelled; but T Sone odorants have steric or vihratlonal propert les which force the cone luslon that they are odor less whon they are not. i1. T Present evldence strongly suggests thet dl fferont parts of the ol factory receptor ares, Ilke tho retina In the eye, are qua itty-specifle. T Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquld system) nor the receptor T No one yet has a fire clue as to the critical relation between the molecule nnd the receptor which pernits an odor perception. - The greater the secretion rate of mucous or selive, the higher thelr pH, and both pH and temperature Influence the quality of sensation in the 111. T The Iden Instrumentel detector would respond to odors 5 the sono quantitative range as does an onima or human subject. T Such an Ideet detector has not been devetoped.
some elenents possess toste.
surt face In order to be smelled,
chemicn! senses.
2
Iaan observors with head In fixed position con by virtue of the two Independtent nostriis easily discern stereo sub I1 effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier au odoront Is at the right or left hand, much es ore uses his two ears In locat ing the source of a sound, - For certaln musk- like compounds, forty motecules are sufficlent to trigger a humon olfact ory response V. - Adaptation to one olfactory quality does not significant ly reduce sensitivity to any ofher dissiel ler quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all siallor quel lities. T E By enploying a alaliaritien nethod of conparing qualitles, one con now obtain ident Ity and degroes of difference without recour se to troble- vi. T Hunger lowers thresholds siightly to some food qua Ilties but not for T It is now possible to Ident Ify the intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull siaply by expert examination of the electrephyslotogics record taken trom approprlate odor or taste neurons. T Electrical stimulat lon of taste In ann yields only reports of "sour" and A "metallic" or "alkatind quality. T Direct electrical stimuletion of the olfactory senso has nover yet been successtully accompllshed. vIL. T Although total anosala Is rore In humans And egeusia even rarer, there Is evidence that In analogy to color vislon deficiences, some people are Insensit tive to (only certeln) qualities whi le having normal sensitivity to others, T Toplca anesthetics applled to the tongue show that alfferent quelities 1 Certaln endocrine disense entitles make It possible for sone people quite sensitively to "snell" such "odor less substances es sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both teste and odor can be reduced to noreat by manipuletion of endocr Ine levels. t enenopauss wonon at the time of ovulation find certaln odors extrenely disegreeable whlle at other times In the menstrunl cycle these same odors
sone words. others.
of toste disappear at different rates.
they wlll judge quite pleesent.
Dl A
