HK02228119 SASTA BARBARA SAN14 -
UXIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO - - :1115 BA. 2 - 4 : 7 : 4 H VIINE 2 IPARIMI 7 : : TINN January 3, 1977 Dr. Willias H. Fishmon La Jolla Cancer Research Toundation 715 Muir Lands Vista Hay La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. Fishean: and Salk.
4 - ' $ I A I E
a d 1A : MITOENIA :
We are lookina fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of the La Jolia rescirch cocunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphstase isoenzymes should fit in well with ongo ing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establismnent of a focal center for research proorams on oscodevelomental prublems is particularly irely. It will be o! e'at potential importance for pulling togetter work. by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, Characieriztaion and dotermination of the sieniticance of huran oncodevelopsiontal antigens such as alphafotsproteir and Carcinuschryonie entigens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship of increased serua concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinoner exposure in humans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systers clearly derion- strate tne 1 anirals pasouxo to hejatocarcineuens have elevated serum AFP concen- trations prior to developrant of slionant timcrs. It is hoped that systere tic study of human scra frum differect sources will deterning if serus AFP concun- In addition, the role of env itunmental fac tors such as hormonal influences on the production of amcodevelopsetal gene prp-lats can be further explored in different sy: tems. Such data iuplies that the prod:u tion of oucodavelopmenta gene product, by tunor cells is net a fixed property of a aivon tumoi but is We look forrard to workino with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundat fon in furthering research in the iportant subjert of oniodevelogrental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoser exposure.
subject to environmesta controls.
expression. Best regards, Stewart Sell, H.D. Professor SS/nb
