L

NEW. YORK POST, FRIDAY, MAY- "ZI 19661
ISDINMDAMSN
Aernnes ollest conraawoutty pibhished Jairy nosspiper

Anti-smoking skulduggery
Imagine this scenario: A scientist who leading
claims to have discovered that cigarette Scruggs opponents. insists he didn't
smoking poses no danger 8 human uments.
health E about to tostify on behalf of the enterod Perhaps the
tobacco industry. Suddenly it's revealed
same lawyers have bought the re-

not, "buy" any doc-
But unless he has
banking business, it is un-
how are reasonable people to
blower: He also represented former
legul fees in the event Brown &
pay Wigand's legal costa pioo be inter-
and Meanwhile, the anti-tobacco forces also
timony he had given 9 the Food and
tinely measures and adjusts nicotine lev-
(The FDA hoped to use this
"evidence" to justify regulating tobacco as
when the subject of ethics clear that

that he de secretly receiving a salary from clear liams why Scruggs prnoas provide Wil-
tobacco lawyers. It also emerges that the Moreover, with such substantial "loans.
scarcher a house and have co-signed two interpret Williams' LArpes,
car loans for him. In his defense, the 8 This .a not the first time Seruggs has
entist insists that, except for the salary, been involved with a subsidized whistle-
Question: How would the media likely Brown & Williamson executive Jeffroy
react? A huge brouhaha to say the Wigand. latter's CBS News promised to pay the
The scientist's research, whatever its Williamson sued Wigand for breaching
actual merits, would be buried under a his contract's confidentiality clause dur-
mudslide of derision. The tobacco indus- ing a widely reported appearance on 09.
BS grounds for attempting to buy a wit CBS lawyers, fearing that the offer to
Now lot's change a few details. Say the preted as an inducement oe break the
scientist a a "whisticblower" who asserts contract, initially scotched the
that the tobacco industry is fully awnre After the substance of Wigand's segment. charges
that cigarette smoking E lethal and has hit the newspapers, his interview was
worked s conceal this fact for decades eventually aired.
"loans, rather than working for to- suffored an embarrassment when a for-
There you have the chain of events that Drug Administration (FDA)
actually unfolded recently in a Louisville, Jerome Rivers, a former manufacturing
Ky., courtroom. Yet the near-silence sur- supervisor for the congrlomerate, with-
rounding the incident has been deafen- drew his claim that Philip Morris rou-
a law firm representing Brown paralegal & Wil- for Critics drug.) incessantly
liamson Tobacco Corp., received a industry ns amoral, portray even the tobacco ita
rewards. $109,000 mortgage and other financial "crime" consists in selling a though legal
Williams had made internal uct that millions of
corporate documents available to attor- After these shenanigans, Americans it is enjoy.
His benefactor was lawyer Richard some of tobacco's foes would comes do well 'dn to
Scruggs one of the tobacco industry's take a careful look in the mirror.

it's all just a loan.
loast.
ness.

would be roundly condemned on ethi- Minutes.

The lawyers providing the
bacco industry. are in fact
the campaign against it.
"bsA

mer Philip Morris


spearheading

employee recanted tes

Today, one of the few
run the story on Page One, reported
Merrell 'SUrUTTIAA a former
neys suing the tobacco companies.

els.
to
a
PARTASE

prod-