EXPERIMENTAL PARASITOLOOY 70, 111-113 (1990)
MINIREVIEW
Viruses of Protozoan Parasites JEAN L. PATTERSON
Division of Infectious Diseases. Children's Hospital and Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics. Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, U.S.A. PATTERSON J. L. 1990. Viruses of protozoar parasites Experimental Parasitology 70, The study of bacteriophages and viruses has pro- rus-like particles does not conclusivelv prove that a vided important leads ia our understanding of the con- virus has been discovered. It is also imporuant 01 con- trol of gene expression, RNA processing and transla- sider the question: How does one isolate a lytic agent tion The early work with bacteriophages enormously from an infecting microorganism? Presumably. in the assisted ia the development of modern molecular bac- in vitro culturing of infectious organisms, those that teriology. Since they are by definition obligate para- survive are resistant to cocultivating lytic agebts. sites of the eucaryotic cell, viruses have been essential Therefore one can only isolate nonlytically infected or in helping to elucidate eucaryotic gene regulation. persistently infected organisms iA appears that all vi- They must conform to all the prerequisites that allow ral systems of protozoan parasites. studied to date, for gene expression within a host and, not surprisingly, have accomplished just thia. There have been several many of the models underlying present concepts of reports of the molecular characterization of viruses in eucaryotic gene regulation are based on experiments parasitic protozoa and these characterizations are crit- originally done with animal viruses. For example, ical in establishing the existence of le viral system. RNA splicing was first discovered 5 adenovirus (Ber- Wang and Wang (1986a) reported the presence of a get et al. 1977) and ironically much of our knowledge double-stranded (ds) RNA virus in Giardia lamblia. In of the function in translation of the mRNA cap struc- general. all of the work on the nature of RNA viruses ture is based on work with poliovirus, a virus wbich in protozoans has been derived from viral molecules does not have cap (see Ehrenfeld 1982). Furthermore. isolated from the infected parasite. The double- studies with vesicular stomatitis virus (ASA bave stranded RNA virus 5' G. lamblia is no exception. An given interesting insights into mRNA ribonucleopro- associated nucleic acid found in the infected parasite tein complexes (Adam et al. 1986). The understanding appeared to be approximately 7 kb. Susceptibility of of some DNA virus's tissue tropism has delineated the ribonucleases in low 1 and insensitivity 5 high salt molecular basis of tissue specific gene expression, supported the hypothesis that * was double-stranded such a the function of tissue specific transcription Subcellular fractionation indicated that the dsRNA factors and enhancers (Freund et al. 1987; Gloss et al. could be found associated with the nuclear fraction. 1987). The successful use of viruses as molecular tools Electron muicrographs showed that the virus had an and models has been facilitated by their small genome estimated size of 33 nm. The RNA could be labeled size and small number of genes, a well as by the un- with "P-labeled pCp at the 3 end with T4 RNA ligase usual ahundance of viral transcripts and proteins in and used as a probe and therefore was not circular. infected cells. These considerations highlight the -od There was a major protein band estimated at a molec- tential value of viruses for the study of parasitic or- ular weight of 66.000 Da. 2 an added advantage. the ganisms. Indeed. the lag S our understanding of gene virus could be used to infect other strains of Giardia Earty experiments in the quest for viruses of -ered parasitic protozoan, Trichomonas vaginalis (Wang sites 8 a great extent depended on electron micro- and Wang 1985). EM analysis of the RNA indicated a scopic examination (Molyneux 1974; Molvneux and linear double-stranded structure of 1.5 um in length, Heywood 1984; Crof and Molyneux 1979). Although with no apparent hairpins or loops. Later this double- this method ia common, the end result is frequendy stranded RNA was found to be between 5 and 6 kb and frustration. More importantly, the appearance of vi- associated with a virus (Wang and Wang 1986b). This
111-113. C 1990 Academic Press, Inc.
regulation of parasites may be due, in large part, to the (Wang and Wang 1986a).
lack of defined viral systems.
A double-stranded RNA was identified in another
111
0014-4894%90 $3.00 Copynghi o 1990 by Academic Pres, lac. AD righas ef reproduction a 1 forme rescrved
50596949
