H KU2223027

Life Sciences Vol. 15. pP. 1291-1300
Printed in the V.S.A.

Pergamon Press

METAROLISM a BENzOCa) PYRTNE BY atesoscies - ROR
TISFUES B PRECMIANT AD FITAL MAMNTERE
Irene T. Wang, Ronald  Ra amutsen, and * Timothy Crnckart
Cancer Reeearch Inetitute, Univarsity of Californis, à Franeiace, and Depart-
ment of Community ard maurirona tal Medieine, Univeraity of California, Irvine*.
(Received in final form 26 August 1974)
Sumary
Pretreatmest of hansters with bento ta)pyrene (BaP) vretly incressed
the sl vitre netaholian of a by lung nierosones fron prognant F
atare, E 3 leue effeet on the metabolien of BaP by i niere-
momoe. The profuetion of various metaholites of Rar E lung niere-
1  increased to different extenter J-hydrony-Bar (3-CH-BaP
was one & the najor metabolites E netabolic yielde of $
axg-dondpestpoapdutp (9,10-dio1) and 7,8-diol vere incrensed aare
than that ef P 4,5-diel. In the : of 1iver microsomas, only the
yielde ef $,10-diol and 7,8-diol were increased ovar the control
levels, The presence of cyclohexene oxide 4 the incubation #
tures decreaned the production of the diole. Basal-level enryme
activities in placental, fetal I and fetal ak in microsones in
metaholisine MP vere very low. Pretrestment of pregnant hanaters
vith : indaced Bab-meteholising entymes in fetal tisrue % fold.
Banso (alprene (DaP) 1e . carcinogen and anviransnmental contaminant that ie
found in coal tar, nineral eil, car exhaut, tohacco smoke, moked foode, ett.
(11. In vitro statiea shoved that netabolie activation et E 1s required for
ita intarartics wh proteina and nuclele acide (2,3). Parller studies with
rat 1iver preparations :4,5) and hanster 1iver microsomer (6,7) shoved that Bar
le metaheliend minly 8 phenolie and dihydrodihydeown fdlal! derivatives, and
8 quinomes I are enzynatie DE air oxidation producte & anatabla phenolic
netabolites (4,9) : vell a aone maidentified mra polar metabelites, The
metabolies of MaP has generally been neamured I the production ef 3-hydroxy
2 (1-OH-BaP which de often one of the major metaholites in vitro t1. 3-01-
nap at toxie 8 eitured celle (01, tt it shovt very 11etle interaction vi th
DINA in Yitro (6) 2 haa not been shown 3 % carcinneenic & the ather hand,
K-regton epowides ef related polyeyelie aronatic hptrecartess (TAM)bind to cell-

1291