ANE PKv
vul 15 au 12 PB.2721-2735
Carcinagenesis
r66I
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke carcinogens supowing-1-05ppuesorguu-u1su)-s and benzo(a)pyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
< 420
chemopreventive agents
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Heaih Foundation. Valhalta, NY 10595. USA
models examined e date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the All mouse because previous
The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents agninst lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction in A/I mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to by 2-4methyleltvesmino) 10-gpridyt-L-hotasee (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combineé and benzofalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individualis or in combination. Groups of Cemale A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastric gavage (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventiva activities of a number of intraperitonent injection (Ip.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or Bap for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethyleitrosamine and7,12-dimethylbenziolanthracene (9,10). either 6 or 61 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse ol evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The 1 route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration (4.11.12). Results obtained with the A/J mouse can be replicated because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate theinjection site and associated mortality. A dose e-response (PEITC) le an effective inhibitor of lung turor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK ut both the A/J mouse and F344 ral (11.13) mice killed 9 or of weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses ofNNK and BaP e total carcinogens This may not B realistic with respect 01 tobacco of24 jimol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1), The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important Comparisons of NNK and BaP given individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (1. when given by the ig route: Lp. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP The most favorahle dosing regimien of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appcars to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occury during dose of 24 umol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and subdoses ig, with sacrifice 6 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we examined tumor yields obtained dosing. This reginen induced 10.524.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. > combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks, followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethytisthiocranate given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, SEM Cound to be an effective inhibiter of lung prelimianry test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP thls study provlde a conventent model for assessing the NNK was synthesized in the American Health Foundation Organic Synchesis efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Faeility. Its purity was established hy HPLC as >997 BaP (98% purity), Our goal ir this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dint containing s com eil, as previously play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups of 15 as sammarized in Table 1. At age 7 weeks. each mouse was kers: s(edhyleommsmaidhponoleld-donese (NNK*) treated B imtraperitoneal (ip.) injection or by intragastric gavage tig) with and benzofalpyrene (BaP) (1). NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical in OI ml couonsced el NNK and BaP were both carcinogen with organospreificity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in the 0.1 ml uned for treatment Injections and gavages were carried *Abbreslationsr NNK. timolhylaknoxamico) 1-(3-pyrd,l 1-butunone individuat dose was one-eighth of the total. Equimolar deurs ef NNK and - BaP, benzololpyrend: PEITC, pheneihyl isothiocyanaie BITC, benzy BaP were uied le most of the combination groups, because the amounts of
which these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP ut combination was established in the that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
Most previous studies in the A/I mouse have examined
We sought e develop a model which could be used to
5.92 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse S v 0.001) and completely induction by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materiale and methods
BITC 5861 purity) and PEITC (93% purity) were obtained from the Aldrich Chemical Company (Milwaukee. Wt). Cottonseed oll was purchased from Female AI mice, age 5 weeka. were obtained from The Jackson Goutroge (Bar Harbor. ME. They were housed under standard conditions in the The desige ef the bioassay is illustrated a Figure 1 The mice were out for 8 consecutive werks. The total doses qre given s. Table L Fach NNK and total earcinogenic polycyelice hydrocarbons in tobaceo smoke are
Sigma Chemical Co. (Si Louis, MOX.
Intraduction a
agents against two of the carcinogent in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
divided
isothiocyanate, in intriperitoneal, is, intragastrie gavage.
o Onford Unvenity Pres
2721
