/ -
- - * M Cigarettes > a . A se E Pot a a 2 - i Interestin A : JONE TOBACCO company NEW YORK (AP - Ciga- * Colticial noted that the staff rette manufacturets Tuesday . recommendation was say chey have * in report marijuana for per- diversifying to pt mari- legalize 18 of eg over age juana, despite . report suOeA years market of the National Commission eblle the biggest Causes Prevention might be a lower age brack- on the an mvatiacd  ot Violence *ch Trecom- set. i NMary Jane sort R goes mends legalizatia "pot" the youngsters. com- for adults. m Sam Fouts, advertis "No, no no,no, Do a has aupy mented manager for Larus Bros. been a rumor Tor Pn lit € & Co., o8 Richmond, Va. years and E xive E. cadse' Mary Jane la an old nick- 6 check  à - thoroughty pame for marijuana but -uas There is no oproach to: E erally has fallen Into disuse industry. among the young. CAzs : William Kloeple ot the To - Fouts, noting that mari juana E "still a rather taboo in the cigarette à month topic" emphasized that his goes by that'some segment. of A dustry, "wouldn't touch it
Makers - Claim
anywhere; bacco Institute, lared. a 3M3HL. ISN th e uniderground preis doesn't catry - story about at all" how tobacco companies are gearing e for the marijuana trade, added James Bolling. vice president and aisistant chairman . a Philip Morris, - de r PH PIFS that while this type of speculation "wis uncer- 'oigpums ntm tobacco com- panies iré publicly beld and under strict goverreent con- trol: no one can eved remote- A become involved becausé at. the preseht ume mari- juana is illegal." 13rs0 * 1e There bave been persistent stories that "tobacco com- panies already have regis- te re d as possible brand names trademarks that in- clude some of the current ve- a a c ula 1 associated with marijuana. and that 'they have been buying up huge tracts o land In Mexico 0n which to harvest martjuana.  evergru a "WE'RE NOT filing for trademark names like Aca- pulco Gold' or buying land south of the border," com mented, Jotr *  W + 4 - a : a . a a :
company
Inc.
1002615950
