SYMPTOMS AND THE INJWINOHIANT-OHOIA IN THE SICK BUILDING SNOHCINAS A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H. complaints associared with the "sick building syndrome Ar same ame. Bhemécre-environmond (environmenial
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT the
et al. (1987) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire The symptoms were more common a baild-
In a cross-sectional invesaganon 5 I building. office buildings built over the last 8 years with a validated were measured on a linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and characteristics 5 the breaching zone rather chen area direct relarionship between the level of complaints & air samples) I characterized by measuring lempereture, quality parameten : not described Skov et a (1987) t relacive humidiry, respirable suspended 'mpoued car. amined indoor air qualiry symptoms in 14 modern 1 bon dioxide, noise level. lighring inensiry, relacive ka tow halls and M older control buildings. A level of 1 midiry, and airflow. No relationship I seen between toms was related a . "Beecing" factor (carpets, upholsery. che degree of sympioms and age. education. or duration and horizontal surfaces) sad the "macro-molecular I of employment at the building or time spent la the i neat" of dust. They also demonstrated . relationship between he on a daily basis. Starisnically, complaing were the number of hours spent photocopying and using carbonless significandy more frequent among smoking E Envi- Aduo paper and tbe level of complaints. Other studies have ronmental characieristics associated 1 a increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985) complaini levels in this group included decressed airflow and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) cootribute models, there was an association hetween respireble a- cause of complaints in the sick building syadrome by mea- pended particulates and the levels of boch mucous mem- suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertaon et brane and ryssemic complaints. Satisfaction wish a F (1965) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. thermal exvironment a predicied by percepdion of draft ferences ls the concentrations of enviroemental pollutants E not clearty contribute to the degree of rymptoms, berwecn rooms in a mechanicalhy and a naturally ventilated although regression models did suggest t complaines building. They studied the rooms with the f complaiat were not independent of thermal parameters. - - i and used area samples. Skov et * (1987) did demoo insensiry MES also associated I complaints. I strate a relationship between symptoms and both area # sudies of a sick building ryndrome I cxamine ples measuring dust and a "macre-molecular" fraction. 1
humidification. irrespective of the
la
ade of the buildings. A
velociry and increased levels of respirable supended par- a indoor air quality complaints.
ticulates 1 dry-bulb lemperature. In regression
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
- exposures simulaneoualy and include prycho- a area #
1 measures a idensify predictors of complaints in
Area samples is buildings may not be representative of à exposures le different points in single rooms. Physical charscteristics soch a windows and partitions, computers, and shelving may infuence air currents. Radiant I may
indoor spaces. INTRODOCTION
Complaints lermed the E building syndrome" bave lead 01 uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, moet pol led to pumerous investigations le the last 15 years. A are lutants resukt trom point sources, 2 they will be diluted a a thought to occur primarily a newty constracted * I subject le fartber removed from the soarce. The micro # a and, at least in the past, were thought to be due 8 vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1984). Nevertheless. a different exposure characteristics than the macro-environ i variety of causes have been identifed le specifc setting. ment of a building la addition, all applied occupational and inchuding inadequate sempersture and relative bumidiry 8 enviroamental bealth rescarch that artempts 01 relate dose to trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compound bealh effects suflers from the problem that dose is penerally and formaldchyde. microorpanisms, environmental sobecco measured at several points in time - then extrapolated to - smoke, pesticides, à entrainment of vehicie exhaast or allow developmem of exposure classifications over decades spent and contaminated air and boiler fumes, fbers released - most heakh eflects are measured a . 1 1 of from duct linings. and office machine offgnses and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sampling A group of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms Kmu change not merely trom et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to hour, such a strategy mast fail. (Robertson et al. 1985) E unable o identify differences in attempted to characterise air-quality parameten in the I wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb empersture (temper. enviroament and set these characteristics in relation a a ature), relative humidity. air velociry, formaldebyde. or pos level of individual complaints at a gven point in I This itive or negative ions between several rooms a a building report presents results of a crom-sectional investigation of a with natural and - building with mechanical vencilacion. problem building using a aet-administered linear analog. where both sts of rooms had high levels of complaints Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-tem symptom E I . Amistant Profenor of Medione and ol lndustrial I Emvironmental Heakh Sciences at the Universuty of Peburgh Schoots of Medicine and Publc Heahh. P. Celegr a Director, Enviroomeetal Healh & Salery. Carnepe-Metion Univerury, Pirtsburgh, PA.
(Kreiss and Hodgson 1984; Hodpson and Kreiss (9861 marily to mechanical ventilation. The same group of authors
results a greater than the difference a average samples, and No investigations in a peer-reviewed literature I
