WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRISUNE
D. 25,605
S. 49,326
WACO METSONOLITAN AREA
MAR 9 19€9

F.C Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard-- Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Comnmunications Commission from going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are lega! merchandise, it
dnes not scem right or logical that onc medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer W hile
newspapors, magazines, billboards and e ounte Cr
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expected lf review the FCC proposal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
worning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC sald it is proposing to refuse Jicenses
01 broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising
because of evidence that smoking is injurioun S health
and the FCC has an obligation ln protect the public
interest. 'This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigger than the FCC nnd may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals 0) do
es they please s0 long as they don't harm another.
Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that if nox don't mention something. maybe * won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Hlorida Democrat. and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Con-
merce Commitice, said in reference in the proposed
FCC rule that the ngincy had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has
any right to tell an advertiser what he could not
say in his ndvertisements. Rogers said Congress will
take a cluse Icok at the whole question of regulations
on televisinn and radio advortising content, not only
as to the Federal Communicatinns Commission but
in regard to Federal Trade Commission practices as
The stakes involved extend beyond the business
of broadeasting- They 08 to the heart of whe:her
government bureaus should he allowed to go beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Health.

hurt you and will disnppear.

well.
2

tho limits of due proccss and the law,