02484

.RAP

: a a

Relative Hepatotoxicity of Some Industrial Solvents after
Intraperitoneal Injection or Inhalation Exposure in Rats
INOVAR LUNDBERG, MARIANNE EXDANL, TONY KRONEVI, VITAUTS LIDUMS,
Reacench Deparimbal Natianad - Af Oreneere Safery - Neal a $-171 & Sada. Sweden
Intraperitoneal LD, Cleshal dese Sn he alue a mnimal lver tasic duses in 1
Sprngne-Dunley nuale - - lee ihe i ahatne autesnin loluene. 1
n L - les huroethene inchlere
eshylene. ahanul meihyl eihel etune an ane h the karing svents LCa I
. - - dee a aknc arises chlore
ferm. ate chharoeshylene L amahrifermame IMP The v actly at the -
-- surbitul dehydregenae (SDHI - wed . - -  1  damage Carbun sir
chleride chlorofurm and DMF acpatoesi kus de cumpared le $ values
lu w a s F Chluulkrm an DMP
- à a - saposure
$ value apprusimerehy Mu and 1a 1 Even relatively
1 doses a the her - - na uise she suer auvily Signifcant direst imetabe
à neduted hepatotosicny sccm lu be n $ cummor leadur - commonly used
The hepaloloxicily of some industrial solvenis. especially carbon tetrachloride
and chloroform has been cxtensively studied ata concerning lever loxicity can
be found aho for marfy other solvents However, the liver tokicity hus in only
few çases been studied relative to ulher efleciy of the sulvents In occupational
medicine this I of unlormatuos e of 2 me valuc a3 cllects wilh significance for
the ealablahmeal ul threshald lamit valur ais u pur licular interest
Sever a methuads ha : been used le cvaluale lusk liver damage in caperimental
animals. dcierminaloon of different ie <nd yme 4 uVHc an serum A raised
activily of such enzymes is caused ba increasesl leakage of the enzymes through
the cell membranes but = is uncertain eheihe this Icakage is - in an inevi
table develupment of cell necro (ammerman, 1976) However, the enzyme
analyses provide hetles quantitative estunaic - the extent of necross and are
easier to perform than microscopical samnalur ut tissue preparations Though
limited necrosis can only be deiecled microscops ally certair encymes are highly
sensitive for liver cell necrosis Korsrud et at 01972. 1973) have shown that sor-
bitol dehydrogenase (SDH)' is sach an cnzyme. In studies where differcat 1
Abbreviations uaed DMF dimethyHformemie su sorbatu dehydrugenese ALAT alanin
inaleoas aD lethal dose SA  LC. leihal catr atn 5 E TO loai doe
# TC - lasic co cniraincn s0s Throughour Nhn I wulven onica a - solvenupeanut -
aaturs relen to volume percent. The -ame lese ahe muaturs . neghecied.

AND STINA LUNDBERO
Rectived Max 19s4

ylene chharide cartan tetrachharuls : arich
a minimual kver luai a concen
(D. tonic duse $ - 6 e0 -
wene hepulutea - comparatively l te
(C. llusis -
astrial solvents .

INTROOUCTION

411

0011-911114 $1 -
.

2501661843