True-False Questions S the Chenistry and Paychophys Tology of Odor and Flevor
1. H F Sone nodern workers suggest that nccurate ceasurenen of vibrational
frequency (in the for intrared. for exanple) of an unknown adorant
will permit prediction of its quallty nnd intensity.
T a No lenentol substance, not even halides or ozone hos eny odor; Instead
they react with the nucose forning new products whlch ore smelled; buf
Sone odorants have steric or vibrational propertles which force the
concluston that they are odor less whon they are not
I1. - F Present evidence strongly suggests that different parts of the olfactory
receptor ares, /Ike the retina io the eye, are qua ilty-spocific.
TF Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor
T No one yet has . r clue as to the critical relation between the
molecule nne the receptor which permits en odor perception.
1I The greater tie secretion rate of eucous or salive, the higher thelr pH,
and both pHI and tomperature Influence the quallty of sensation in the
111 H F The ideal instrumentel detector would respond to odors in the sone
quantitetive range an doan an aninat or human sub ject.
1 - Such an Ideat detector hes not been developed.
> : Ian observors with head In fixed position con by virtue of the two
Indopontent nostrils easily discern stereo seol effects, 1.e. they
can tell whiother nes eoront is at the right or left hand, much 6s oe
uses his tue ears in locating the source of sound.
TF For certaln musk-liko compounds, forty molecules are sufficient to
trigger - humon olfactory response.
Adaptation o one olfactory qunlity does not significantly reduce
sensitivity ro any other dissimilnn quallty, but does reduce sensi
tivity to all sinllor quelities.
A By employing sini larities nethod of conparing qualitles, one con now
obtein Identity nnd degroes of difference without recourse 9 troblo-
a TE Hunger lowers thresholds siightly to some food quallties but not for
TF If is now possible to loentify the Intensity and quallty of certain
given stimull sieply by expert examination of the lectrophysiologice
record taken from approprlate ofor or taste neurons
TF Electrical stimulation of taste in nn ylelds only reports of "sour"
and a "ectallic" or "alkaling" quality.
1 F Direct electrical stimuletion of the olfactory 50 . has
Successfully eccompllshed.
Although total anosela is rare io humans And ageusia even rarer, there
Is evidence that in analogy to color vision deficiences, sone
are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while hoving norea
sensitivity to others.
Toplcal anesthetlcs applled to the tongue . hr nu that different Qur Itles
- Certain endocri ine disense entitles make It possible for sote people
quite sensitively to "snell" such "odor less" substences as sucrose or
sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both teste and odor can be
reduced to nonent by manipuletion of endocrine levels.
- Premenopausa wonon at the tIme of ovulation fInd certaln odors
disegreeable whlle at other tInies In the menstrun cycle these : ae or

some elements possess taste.

surface In order to be see led.

chenicn! senses.

V.

sose mords.
others.

ye beon
people

VII.

50291

of taste disappear at different rates.

they  Judge quite pleasant.