PK
Carclnogenesis vel 11 nu 13 Pp.2721-2725. 1924 carcinogens Pentwesougteg-qaw)- chemopreventive agents
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke benzo(alpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
pyridvl)-1-butandne and
C342
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Health Foundation, Valhalla NY 10595. USA
models examined o date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclie aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the A/I mouse hcause previous
The purpose of this study SEM to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of Tchemepreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction in A/j mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression 01 by 4-(methylnitrosaminol-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanane (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However the combined and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice CI evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenbers were treated by either intragastrie adcard (i-g-) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of intraperitonenl injection (i.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and7.12-dimethyibenzialanthracene (9,10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse 01 evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The ig route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4.11.12). Results obtained with the Au mouse can be replicated because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems. For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injection site and associated mortality A dose response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung tumnor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/l mouse and F344 rat (11,13). mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not he realistic with respect 01 tobacco of 24 umol of each) induced more lung tume ors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (I). The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for € study, NNK and BaP are importan Comparisons of NNK and BaP given individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (12 when given 49 the i.g route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either were complicated by local tumor formation and mortalits. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP The most favorahle dosing reginien of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 umol of cach, administered in cight weekly smoking. In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and subdoses ig, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we exomined sumoe yields obtained dosing. This regimen induced 10.5:4.4 lung adenomas wodn trentment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- & weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 19 ethyfisothiocyanate given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1), This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITO tuinor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP this study provlde a convenlent model for assessing the NNX was synthesized in the American Heateh Foundation Organic Synthesis efficacy of chemepreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. Its purity was establihed by HPLC as >997 BaP (93 purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4) They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive malstainad on AIN-TAA dirs containing Sa ws oil as previously to play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups cf 15 as sammarized in Tahde I At ase 7 weeks eseh mouse wa kers: 4(matiyinitrosamino)1 -(3-pyridyl)- 1-butanone (NNK*) treated by inraperitoneal (ip) injection or by intragastric gavage lig) with and benzolalpyrene (BaP) (I) NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical le 0.I ml couoasced oi. NNK and BaP were beth carcinogen with organospeeificity for the lung in all rodent disselved in the O.I ml uned for treatment Injections and gavages were carried *Abbreslations: NNK. 4-(mathy! osamino)-I 1-(3-pyrid,1-1. -butunone. indiwiduat dese was cne -eighch of the natal Equimolar doue of NNK and a BoP benzolejpyrene: PEITC, phencihy inothiocyanale: BITC, benzyl BaP were wsed in most of the combination growps, hecause the mmounts of
whlch these on) tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor mode! has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP in combination was establiched in the
Most previous studies in the An mouse have examined We sought to develop a model which could be used to
that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
5.92 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (F A 0.001) and completely induction by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inbibiting forestomach sumor development. The results of Materials and methods
BITC 1989 purity) and PEITC (936 (Aund were abtained from the Aldrich Chemical Cempany (Milaaukes. Wt, Cottonseed oll wat purchased froe Ferale AJJ mict. age weeks, were obtoined f The Jackson Laboratory (Rar Harbor, ME) They were housed ander standard conditions in the The design of the bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1. A mice were divided out for & consecutive weeks. The otal doses are given in Tuble L Each 16 NNK and sotal carcinogenic polycyelie hydrocarbons in tobacco smake are
Sigma Chemical Co (SA Louis, MO)
Introduction
agents against two of the carcinogen in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
isothiocyanait, a intriperitoncal, is, introgastric gavage.
o Oaford Univenity Press
2721
