d BY MARILYN vos SAVANT
THE LSEMOT:
SMOOVHS8ENO THEM ALL.
A freg fell lte . well 32 feet deep. Each day he I two feet ap the side wall and slid ome back I foet each aght. How many days did It take thefreg to I out ofthe well? IrD. Gtrolamo, Souah Ondinge, I'm aware that my answer is going to drive everyone crary, but I'm going torisk a anyway: It will take him 30 days. To explain, let's suppose that the well de oaly 2 foet deep. How many days will it take him de jump out? Less than one, because he can land e the bottom, then jump up to the edge and climb right out without sliding back at all. If the well is 3 foet doep, bowever, he'll jump up 2 foct a slide down one during the first 24-bour period, then jump out : when the next day arrives, with only one full day behind him If tbe well is4 foet deep, Krl take bim two days, aod so D0. the number of days alwiys being two less than the feet. - -* we're . r 1 1 kypoorites! - not, wly de 1 E a h lonon bsa't everyth lng I l i money la L that seems te cescern teday's seclety? T Sievens, Youngstown, Ohlo Ithink poople wbo don'thave money say it bocause they bope it's true, and people wbo do have money say because they know i's true. Wly area't the world's ablest people la leadership positions? : F gloomy te witness so many coutries 1 lncleding ears, composed of persons of mediocre mentality. M Chinn, Oakland, Calif. Many countries don'thave an ahemative leadership is determined wbere force. Here, bowever, we do bave . choice, elections oftea become popularity, ility,contests . - . * - - 1 Ml R. - AMat NLADE TneA. * 1 a AON/ - i - I I - - 1 PARABE MAGATNE -SEPTEMBER 18 1988-PACE 15 mAcont TELEGKAN e Nen/s
7 mg
6mg
7 mg
3mg.
2mg.
NOW ISLOWEST By U.S. Gov't. testing method.
1 a - a - a à - RE lm ten a a x I 9 a nicotin 6 2 RTER MAO a y - . -  I A 1 BIX tnx La a sonT A oun aoine MO 6 Moma Ja AC I
GENERAL'S SURGEON WARNING. Smoking By Women Result in Fetal Pregnant May
- a a 1 OF
b a - à
Injury, Premature Birth, And Low Birth Weight.
