NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A campalgn to woo Dade County teenagers away from smoking la under way bere as part of a nation-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groups, the society hopes to persuade a large pro- portion of the nation's young people that smoking may lead Key aralnn in the : E palgn, le him strip detalling the  against tobacen, It has already I abews te - enth Eraders in 13 achonis a educattenal telesinion, and wIll 1 brnadeast to miath grade acience students la the The seventh-grade program, directed by teacher Rill Evans, included a panel discussion in whlet students directed ques- tions at Dr. Francia N. Cooke, representing the nociety. e Trachers I have talked to agree that although amoking ln not a serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu. dents are approaching the age when the problem ail be faced," Erine said: Mata value a à nimstrips E 1 gives students logleal argument with whleh ithey eeald retuse ta - - - when nrouraged by atrele et friende," 1 dded The Nim strip la alse being shown live to senior a . achools in the counly.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October 9, 1960
Education Cuts Youth
-
Habits
Fag la
American eigaret aoking can be reduced * a cent through teenage education program # a high schools. These statistics -re presenied Saturday s Walter G. I director of publie education for the Ameriean Cancer Society, here for the Florida Division. ACS, annual meeting I said the I amoke" program : direeted at leenarers as a meane fer I eancer beesmne e the soclety's eavjetion that soking - . camse ef fatal lung a prospects of reducing cigaret moking s one-fifth were iboan s pilol program conducted with 22.000 high achool aludenta af Purtiand Ore., 1 1 - ds d Sbidents I parents 1 ene moet lkely de 1 Smoking incressed is the succesaive high school prades. Among boys participhting in the Oregon aurvey, 143 £ eent emoked as freshmen. 152 8 cent as sopbemores, 31.1 per eent as juniars, 1 4 as I à correspond ing ligures for girl stodenta were 4 per cent, 10.6 per cent 1 or the students. 258 per cent of the boys smoknd regularty at least enre . 1 a a 114 per cent et the girte 4 Education programs againat smoking reduced the number of new amokers arong boys from a per cent le 7.7 & cent, and beginning air mokes from 14 b 1r PROGRAM EFFECTIVE James enid Che figures projected erer . four-year peried indicated a 20 per eent d bigh school I could gi delerred froro smoking through the ACS educational pregram a sudy, la said, revealed that the 1 effactive approach an ls showing the leng term Mect e rmoting. leaving the decision te a 1 * - Least ellective, he reluted : the simple inetruction nat f a part ef a anti-emoking eduration proprad, a ACS has devised a Aina strip Juntrating affecta A e habit for screming 5n $ achool clasrooins
a cancer.
at 2 3 Mar Hotel can doaur
apring.
.
I à iigaret habrt
a E cent and R per cent.
1 THH MTN 20/0032686
