C
as/n/s
JT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira Nre Yerk Times Servier
waD bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarctie promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars - made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even in recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22
TAIPEI I The Marlboro cow- dn salcs of $119 million. la 1986, trade talks between the United New Taiwan dollani (79 cents)for boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4 4 million. For- States and Taiwan. Wang Chien. pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOw hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits o0 cigarette advertis sown. His picture adoms kiocks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered * ing in Japan ard more liberal Com- gaitar-playing. jeans-clad promot- Indocd, Asian sales accounted give out Iree cigarettes and gifts," B aggressive campaign. Television Thia (renetic, fast-growing D4- cigaretie exports last year, primari teachers told me that junior high lawed in the United States in 1971, tion of nearly 20 million poople ly because both Taivan and Japan school students - 12, a years oid Cigarette packages sold in Japan emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-sianding restrictions. are Dow smoking How can € and Taiwan must carTy . label that, year and for the first time, I According to the Brown & Wu- rette companies promote cigareties roughly translated, says, "For the rubstantial number of them were lamsoo Tobacco Corp., exporta of like that? Ie's O.K. to have them sake of health, don't smoke too made ia America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole martets. We en- much" a warning much milder To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re joy - 915, billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in si UOTIg in new sales. the United States. But those people mandated a the United States.
and dod-pur-mom stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
panies can advertise on TY after
O01 this city, next to posters 2 - peroent. er of Winston cigarettes.
"They go 01 amusement places 60 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting
for most of the growth in American he said recently. "Many scbool- advertising of cigarettes was out
In Japan, which has population million of 120 and where people the past year. The market share 25 American cigarettes increased to ers vigorously deny 10 from 3 percent la 1986, and the promoting
Wacturers have essentially intro cigarette advertising 01 the tbe American companics of entic ing teen-agers 01 take da moking, operation that had monopolized percent by 1992. tised, altbough it does now. pteseure from Washingion In the alcohol. year since stiff restrictions o0 for- 8 cigarettes were dropped. a American cigarettes LaT Taiwan for pealod growth American man- wfacturen at time when sales in export way and tbe number of anti-smoking laws is way dn
are juat like robbers. If you are a Tbe companies say Amenican "urtu a human being. you woo't de cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan not 3O much because of the adver- tising a because they are of better quality and taste better. American are with the way ure cigareties made of they and bacco and beve less Lar than Tai- products say wincse cigarettos which are not
duced
ialand, and tbat has created E furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes year that. Oovernment officials bave accused imports have more than tripled
American
cigarette manufactur- there la any- Tbey are not allowed to advertise 5 small stores where cigareties are as well as through promo- also 120 ade . year in place circulation maga- acl- dom cxocods 200,000. people Taiwar im
blended to-
charge the American companies more than perceot last year, thing 3uoin their The fOrersmectadminitere dicts that il could grow to 15 8 20 salcs pitch.
botly deay.
Department of Agriculture old thry have no plans to change their bleoded. American pressure to open their have they pusbed to do 10, they say. said Jaw Shau-kong . legisiator. tions. Cigarette saumimtre may courage its people to amoke, why rines, cach dl whosc causc of American ada. They hire rettos accounted for leas than 1 per yount attractive Fho-nak-61 girla oent of tbe market wearing short skirts to give  cig- posed strict quotas on foreig and then it becomes a babit. It'i cigarettes and imposed rtint teriffs.
the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials S tbey resent lon television or ia newspapers. Nor The government agreed to allow markets 10 producta that éndanger Tbey can advertise only through otbers into tbe business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and posiers hung near cigarette racks or
sales a really burts our feelings, kold,
have soared, generating much- n. tbe United Sustes docs not en-
to Taiwan? Younger
the Unilad States are down : femaies are smoking - lot g Before last year, forcign ciga According to the U.S. Depart- arettes (ree ie nightclube k's a cigarettes, bandad imports at : aset of Agricukture, people in Tal- difficult lor Sunok boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licered to sell
immoral.
2 - rerult, imported aigareti cost
0/4/900052
