IK82223022

Life Sciences Voal. 15, PP. 1291-1300
Printed in the 4S.A.

Perganon ress

a

ar n ta Pn BY KICROSOM FRON
TIS ar PRPCOLANT Aen P TAL TERE
Irens Y. Wang, Ronald E. Ra smussen, and T. Timothy Crnckar
Cancer Besearch Ta itute, Univeraity of Califernia San Praneieco, and Depart
ment ef community aed E avironmental Medieine, Unirerait of California, Irvine".
(Received in final for 26 August 1974
suary
Pretreatmes ef hansters sith benzo (a)pyrene (BaP) greatly increased
the in vitre artahol iae ef Bat by lung alere anes from prognant Na
atare, and a lese effect on the metaboll a of Bap by 11ver niere-
momee - The produetion of various metaholites of Rap by lune aiere-
dihyp@redibpéresr- (9,10-dio1) an 7,8-diol vore increased nar
than that ef the 4,5-diel. In h ehee eof 1iver nicrosonee, only the
yielde of 9,10-dioi and 7,8-diol sare ineraasad ovar the control
levels, The presence of cyelohexene oxide in the incube tioe -
tures decressed the production of the dioln. Dasal-leval encvee
activities in placental fetal liver, and feral akin microson ses in
metaholizine AP vere very low. Pretrestment of pregant hane ters
with RaP Endaced RaP-metaholising entwes in te : tisrue 2-3 fold.
fmt in coal tar, ar Tal oll, car exhaust, tohacco smoke. - A foode, ete.
à In vitro stadies ahoend that ne tabolie activation of BaP is required for
ite intaractios with proteina and nclele aetAe (2,3). Farller studies wieh
tat livar pr eparations 54,5) a hanater liver micrososes (6,7) showed that BAP
le metahelined mainly 8 phenolie and dihgdredihydrewy taiol derivatives, an
to quinones whieh ere ensymatie oE air osidatian producte ot mnatahle phenolie
metabolitas is'e) as well a nome saidentifies note polar netabalises The
motabolies ef BaP has generally been neamured Aq the production ef 3-hydroxy-
Bar (3-ON-MaP -leh je aften one of the major metaholites in vitro 5 3-OH-
Keregton epowides ef re ls polyeyelie aronatic hplrocartens IAES hlet to cell-

sonos vae ineraanet to aire
was ene of the nator sat

nte lahudromale 6-CH-BAP
. the metabolie yielde or 4.10

nane (alprrene CDaP1 ie . carcine and

-mental contant that ia

Dap ie tosie to muitured calle (9) hut it shovr
DRUA in vitro 661 and has not been

1irtle interaotia vs th
to be - arcinecenie. On the ather hand,

1291