WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRISUNE D. 25,605 - 49,326 WACO METOPOLITAN AREA MAR S 1963
FC Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard- quoA Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission fron going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it does not scem right or logical that one medium of advertising be forbidden the producer w hile newspapers, magazines, hillboards and counter displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires Junp 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC sald it is proposing to refuse licenses to broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising because of evidence that smoking is injuriour to hcalth and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals to do as they please so long as thcy doa't harm another. Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if you don't mention something. maybe it won't Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democret, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com- merce Com.mitice, said in reference to the proposed FCC rule that the ngency had overstepped the bounds of its authority. He said he douhts that FCC has any right to tell an advertiser what he could not say in his névertisoments. Rogers said Congress will take a close Icok at the whole question o! regulations on telovisinn and radio ndvortising content, not only as to the Federal Communicatints Commission but in regard to Fcderal Trade Commnission practice: as The stakes involved extend beyond the business of broadcasling. They 03 to the heart of whether government burcaus should he allowed to go beyond
advertising.
Hazardous to Your Health.
hurt you and will disappear.
well.
tho linits of due procesa and thc law.
