LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday March 20, 1977
ALOOKTATTESTS Lo-uegeul Saccharn: nWC BOBEFT Times e lence writer Does it maie 5 nse 8 ban a popula food adetive an he strength of what. happens when hundred rats and ther offsprings eat I additive in hug: doses? : The Calore Contral Couneil, Ine. R Ananta thinies nat a trade argani- satian. whose $ 0,000 annual budgat comes trom manufacturers a dietary food And drink. bas spent thousands cédallars in thelast few days far full- page newspaper ads across the coun- berating the Food and Drug Ad- ministration for its decision 6 ban saceharin. - the only nonnutritive- sweetener curently ca the market Even the g A is wiling 6 admit there's a basic difference between - rats and huma a cne a ad in the TEA Street Tournal-ohserved. s,11. 1 another P mple a the art mtire ot big
To judge by the torrent of et t te FDAhas received. a sizable por- tion the. calorie-coumting public agres Long accustomed 6 a cross fire aE criticism from industry and consumer activists. the FDA has been - by, citizen demands 3 liber- ate saccharin And moves are afcot 4 Cangress a amend the Food and Drug Actav Ai a 1 f * There'sbeen tremiendocs.cukery from all:aver the country," # EDA spokesman 5 Washingtoa said: a, ranges from anguish to anger. We've. naver been this busy, a e a The FDA: for its part: says it was only doing what the Jaw required. d the lw-specifically the Dela- nay clause Congress inserted. in the Foed and Drug Act im 1958 says that: poficed) additive shail be deemed to * safe E it is found after tests à wiich are agepadoadde for the evalua- ton of the satetyat food additives: duce cancer E man 8 animat e clause does.not allaw faza bal Bum of rise md benerit. Nar dces a dtire . the: ban tar be: based ca dence cf cancs
af besieged
the logie o this law may - seer $ the general public, medical eiearchers say. that the animal A a périments upan-which such regilato are based do a sen- decisions have siblef rationala --andi that they 5 tave a direct-bearing on risk 8 bu- mans 3 sltis true, resez ato thiftherats "at tiecenter of this fur are consumed each day the saccharin equiralent af Aanar '1,CCO cans of - lowecalorie soit drinic But they-con- siderit not dichonest to n-Smprojem as the calcrie couneil has:. that suggest ( disparity makes the research & humans trelevant who drink one @ a Pecple 1 P a saccharin soft oniy drinkc rum a carmparably lower risk of cancer. But fn a af 213 million people, the population collective haza E could stil add - a e sever an cases af blad der-cancer: a Mcreover scles * nate rat
a
-
7035437
0087432
TIMN
