496
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richard L. Nacye. MD, and Woodrow S. may var y in incidence and Somureet Counties of
Findings Dollinger, MS the men bnd ever
Coal workers pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one pationt to another. In found to correlate well with quantitative, measurements of E the volume of macules and nodules. recognition of emphysema and chronic cor miners with no roontgenographic with silica and collagen.
process but a a study of 77 miners of postmortem anatornic dioxide)and collagen content of dust evidence of pneumoconiosis had
rank, low-volatile coal in Camhrin and ryivania Nonc of eentral l'ean- d ucted between 1003 and 19-15 ly the Pennaylvanin lepartmeat of Miner end Mineral Indurtries phowed an silica cuntent of cval Jnt de low in all arenn of I'enneyia- : seldom helngt greater ihan s.. ir owever, the mine durt cohevttra L n of free nilica In Rreater for sonte U nlergroundd wurkets euch as nof la 5 * or encountir sitva-hearing The 77 cascs palverin - rand, wlerted 1i 1e kewtd (almne akes ly tuthera, whnrisited rhch of reven pirpase e neral huspital, and rea. every AU a protorul lavohed a man - than aI yrar of age an dJ parumorineis, l twevn 1960 anl JNts The ia to determine ir pr- to . casen Atarted with the hatch pata sone workera withnit uspurioter Tu U deacriptinus the lungs Whn ere was any mention of ese ve ement, parencly mul nodub - fina er any histury of mining the ti nt's elinical chart a 1a ean.inad. a were evttce A as Includel in the study unly trvnpatinnal expsare crdr unel ln rpeeli mines Lad "wail ntl retive mation liplane tin : a unenhtained - mocamnas N a a Delle 1 223 027050
bituminous
coal, roentpenographic categories for
pneumaconiosls were nnined anthracite roal. Survey ron- rocntgenepiaphic ing Mhift of exposure jr werk- with dyspnea. A nuniber of FEA, Th fice biturcinngs work-
nodules, and (2) the silica (silicon pulmonary dust macules and emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspinea in addition lo dust Trom 102 to 462 of Appalachian chitis and coal workers have roentgeno lur, graphie evidenee of pneu- symptoms, and physical findinge have been difieult to make, early stagces. epecially in tions to disability. h is the Theau diflicuhies prok of the current ably arie from the faet that roal workers' pneunmeoniols ("black egraphie featuren of lung" is not a single disense prorem Another aim but a composite of multiple disorders, and severity, dupendent upon RrO enigenographic gruphie aren, exut occupat inal a posure, and opjmarent individual sus- eeptilility. These nultiple -
Unfertunately, there vas poor
verage coal dunt d.
which appear to be most closely correlated Eulmnonale, the tnu disorciers eable fout of air 1LAPU.UONU fur parttdes rer
macules
hronchiolitix,(J, erntriluhu. 4 Jlters and cledrie Inoncive panlolular, and pararicatictal I who drill into separate dirove pnireses 11 rough a seareh uf suly tn evalnate thcir t a rovityen- abnormnlities Patients Studiod and Methods frum l'enne hania anel Wet Vir ginia. Thiriv-one h.d low-rank nesrly nerthn We. Virinia TL ether 46 lad alway mine d highrr PUBLICATIONS
meconionia, hut cna relations belween emphysema: and G) tuiwreukuiin and such roentgenugraphie ahnormnlitics, orvusionally othr di arase prveesyes,
These
appear to make differing etaibu- - individoal influencen nn the
that a
each of whieh may vary in inridehre muconiunis with disability esicta in Rirts
erdes Indude(Ithe primary cnal elust Patient, The patients werr 77 tin nt infoructinn
macule; (2) silicuris; (a) chrunic lhun- dergroand miners ef hituminoun cnal Le and uthr datis enurerting nipa
Fnm thy n a bganan F- M4 . C Iuntvy Medical nist, Krpte :  Le Crnlet Ilerà. a 1eu dtse 3 JAMA, Aprul or 1972 . Vol 220, 2
minel ulwaya wal in rminties
- rat Cullge . a a 5 Pnn..huhia -rrs btate of sauthn high-wodatil- estern
Pemnashania ur da u iraed hy te imhrild 1-n
10346287
