SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H.
ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

P. Collopy, M.E., C.L.H.

et al. (1987) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
questionnaire The symptoms were more commoa a build-

In a crott-sectional invesnganon in one building, office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validased
were measured on e linear analog scale questionnaire. su where the ventilation system abso provided cooling and
Ar the same ame, the micro-environmens (environmental humidification. irrespective of the ae of the I A
characueristics in the breathing zone rather then area direct relarionship between the level of complaints and air
samples) 1 characterized by measuring temperenire, quality parameten : not described. Skov et al. (1987) en-
relarive hamidiry, respirable suspended particulases, car amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern I
bon dioxide, noise level, lighzing inuensiry, releche kae Iom halls and 14 older control buildings A level of rymp
midiry, and airflow. No relationship I sern benveen toms was related to . "heecing" factor (carpets, upholsery
the degree of sympioms and age, educacion, or duration and horizontal surfaces) sad the "macro-moleculer compo
of employment at the building or time spent in the build- nent" of dust. They also demonstrated . relationship between
hn on a daily basis. Suaristically, complainas wre the sumber of hours spent photocopying and using carbonless
significanty more frequent among Supyous men. Envi- copy paper and the level of complaints. Other srudies bave
ronmental charecterisics associaled wich the increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et a 1985)
complaint levels in this group included decreesed airfow and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) cootribarte
models, thene was an association berween respirable a cause of complaint le the sick building syndrome by I
pended particulates and the levels of boch MMCONLS mom suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et
brane and ryssemic complaints. Sarisfaction wiah dhe F (1985) wert unable to demonstrate any measurable dif-
I environment as predicted by percepcion of dreft ferences le the concentrations of eevironmental pollutant
did # clearty contribute a che degree of symptoms, between rooms in a mechanicall and a naturally veutilete
mudies of che sick building syndrome I examine ples measuring dust and . "mecro-moleculer" fraction.

complaints associared with the "sick building syndrome

velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended £ to indoor air quality complaints.

ticulates and dry-bulb semperature. In regression
alchough regression models E suggest t comy
were not independent of chermal parameters.
insensiry a also associated 1 complaints. A
L meamures to idenaify predictors of complaints in

Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
building. They studied the rooms with the # compl
rates and used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did demor
strate relationship between symptoms and both
Area samples is buildings may nor y representathve o
the exposures in different points in single rooms. Physical
characteristics 1 a windows and partitions. computens.
and sbelving may infhuence air currents. Radiant heat m
different exposure characteristics than tbe mecro-enviroe

ares -

* exposures simubaneoualy and include psycho in i samples.

indoor I
INTRODICTION

Complaints termed the * building syndrome" have lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, moet &
led to pumerous investigations in the last 15 years. E are hutants resuh from point sources, s0 they will g diuted a
thought o occur primarily ie newty constructed ollice build- subject ln fartber removed from the soarce. A micro #
ings and, at least e the past, were thought to be * to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very
wide variety of causes have been identifed le specifke settings, ment of a building. In addition. all applied occupational an
inchuding inadequate semperature and relative bumidity 0o0 environmental bealth research 2 attempts to relate dose o
trol, noise, lighting. vibration. volatile organic compounds bealth effects suflers from the problem that dose de penerally
and formaldehyde. microorganisms, environmental tobecco measured e several points in time and then extrapolated te
smoke, pesticides, d entrainment of vehicle exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications 1 decades
spent and contaminated air and boiler fumes. Abers released while most heakth eflects are messured as . single resak of
from duct linings. and à machine offgases I odors these chronie exposures Where the variability of sam
A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom
et al. 1984) sugpested that these complaints were related pri- day to day but from hour to hour, such stratepy mast fail
(Robertson et al. 1985) was unable to identify diflerences tn attempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the micro
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (temper- eavironment and set these characteristics in relation o the
ature), relative humidity. air velocity, formaldehryde, or pos level of individual complaints at - piven point in I This
rve or negative ions between several rooms in a building report presents results of crom-sectional investigation of .
with natural and a building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using . self-administered. linear analog.
where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge setf-assessment questionnaire to record shon-temm symptom
à I . Amauant Prolenor of Medicine ad el Industrial and Eavironmental Heahh Sciences at the Univeruty of -
of Medicine and Publc Heahh. a f a Direcor, Environmental Heahh and Salery, Camepe-Mellon Univeruty Pirtsburgh :

inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem,

(Kreiss and Hodgson 1984; Hodgson and Kreiss 1986).
marily to mechanical ventilation à same proup of authors

results is greater than the difference ia average samples,
No investigations in the peer-reviewed literature heve

School

S