BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
Area stores
SA
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For the Delly Camera Iotr kids. ka
referring to the increased enforce- penally Tur Hutas tobacco uor m pau; B anq Uhe cigaretles. The the cigarettes. and, if asked. they (Gee BOULDER, Page 3C)
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks uulucky OFQ8HOU3 nesses this week during a crack. getcaughtwere issued summonk- doun on selling cigarettes to ml- to appoar u court. Thc maximum The sting. conducted on the eve horis E $200 fine of the American Cancer Soclety's TH Juna involved two tcams. Oreat American Smokeout. was lo Each included a uniformed omcer. tended 01 educate clerks that it's il- a piain clothes omcar Puy oml legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School sirts, Who Police targeted gas stations, -uds giris" parenis signed a waiver al- vénience, drug, Rrocery and "IP lowing them o al partin.the.op- "Taw has never Beerf enforced, said The juvenlles wero told not to Jopmnog Police Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell We're letting the stores know had to show identification.
oount Blores. men. recently, the eration. this is going to happcn,' ahc sald,
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors At the Conoco atation, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry 28uh1 SL one of the girts asked when she Was istied ASum, the cashlar for a pack of Mart mons, ous raid B40 wns a stur boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- quep. and couldn't RIOTE AUL ness, In plain clothes, poos In tourt costs. Haukeness pot 1. lina-hahind ber to witnece thc 6oAgole her, saying she -pinos A placard near the cath regis. the Distriet Attorney to do cam ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity ecrvice Inatrad of paying clerk asked to see some identifi- The clerka, not the store own cation The buyer produced lier ers or aanugers, have to pay the. she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'L du It to .usyund od at the license, act it down on stores or clerks,' she said. the counter, and sold her the though, when you ce clerks "Al: After they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted 18: stepped dn and identified him slorcs and clerks al ail bur four celf a3 a police offcer. Manka recelved summonses. came in and wrote the clerk a Thie wock's operation was the. "When I Nee them ask for an year The Arst sting, conductes E I think they're going to a in September, targeted 16 stores ean the calc," Haukeness sald. und ST clerks received sum
(From Page 1C)
The clerk at Colony Market,
transaction.
prububly work out a deal-with-
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The ue Ane driver's license, which showed court coste.
cigarettes. summons.
ing, you might think otherwise. crye" - punass tobacco sale stine Has
"But they never 3
monses,
