LOS ANGPLES TIES Los Angeles, Californin October 20, 1054 been proved. ale I'niversity
hairil uudn the premise that hination n' a partirular tvpe neet or hetween riea- in each nf : three rategories moking and disease ha: has alrcadv produred a sale Might Take Six Months one it is, so all can be made Dr. 4 Cuyler Hammond thar wav. M not, the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Carrnce Cook Titte. complete statistical ipms to chairman of the scierrifr ad date, said tbat "some say we vianrv board and scient fic di should wait for more defini rector of the Toiarro Indus tive evidence before develop- try Resrarch Committee de. ing a safe cigarette. but no ies which he helieves wonlr one has said just what the de prndure some of "the defni finitive eviience weud be." tive eviderce tn nich Dr Hr sand he "took issue" with Hammond referred. In his talk 10 the Ameriran "We wiil tackle eimultan system was more important, line of the industry researeh migh: prove surcesstal in xix do not have todav the exneri nonths, wirh it:ek." he said menta! evidence that : arr- tobaren, he Raid. and e may The moct important nrn:eet
cigarette 1E so scientific re- search should prove which should find one, "since ple like to smoke cigarettes. seribed the nutlines nf siud- Tackle U'nknawns
Expert Calls Sale Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming NEW YORK Ort. 19 (LP)
for
statistician
-oad
thie viewnoint
The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eouxly manw of the unknowns arette smoking with hoth Hammond xaid the relation- in this feld of tobaccn u1xe in lung cancer and heart dis- ship nf rigare:te smoking to relation to buman health, he rase is "overw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint 2 public program. We seek definitive onee abour developing "a safe health. than the relationshin findings in ue area where cigarette." leading statisti- to lung cancer A program to much suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find Ta safe cigarette from heen done. The nrogram nf tife advisory board of the There are various types of garding the raure and rfert Tobacco Industrv Research tnhacen, there are varinus relationshin hetween eru romn. Committer ansounced some of types o! fiters, and there ard mental factore including
the viewpoint of the heart the bnard Outlines Described
tha: we recngnizes mit scientifie eonclasons Po. snoking and lune ancer set up was direes tudy 3 eurrent lung cancei raset . 10 medical centers itlie : n 1 ed States and Canada,
meeting cf the American Cancer Society today. At the xame time the scien-
the details nf SEK sricatific re ariona terhn'ques nf curing
srarch program which in he thar
some fortustonis rom- LOS ANGELES EYAWINES los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
It will include numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokers, as well as teats on animals. Only the main broad aspeets of the research were disclosed today. à specitio research grants, financed by the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY ON TOBACCO YORK. Oct. 19 - < bread abc point study seek ing imowledge whether eigareta or other forms of tobacco cause lung eancer or other health haz. ards was announced today. It a the first announcement of big research proxram headed by the selentifie ad- visory board of the Tobacco In dustry Research Committer
NEW
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
