:

NEW-YORK POST, FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1996 L

NEW YORK

USY

rne3 àee conrammontiy prbrishrd uisity newspper

Anti-smoking skulduggery
Imagine this scenario: A scientist who leading opponents.
claims to have discovered that cigarette Scruggs insists he didn't
smoking poses Do danger to human uments.
health ia about to testify on behalf of the enterod Perhaps the
tobacco industry. Suddenly it's revealed clear
same lawyers have bought the re

"buy" any doc-
not, But unless he has
banking business, # is un-
how are ronsonable people to
blower: He also ropresented former
legal fees in the event Brown &
pay Wigand's legal costa pmnoo be inter-

that he t secretly receiving a salary from liams why Scruggs would provide Wil-
tobacc lawyers. It also emerges that the Moreover with such substantial "louns."
scarcher a house and have co-signed two interpret Williams "salary"?
car loans for him. In his defense, the sci- This ie not the first time Scruggs has
entist insists that, except for the salary, been involved with a subsidized whistle-
Question: How would the media likely Brown & Williamson executive Jeffroy
react? A huge brouhaha to say the latter's Wigand. CBS News promised to pay the
The scientist's research, whatever ita Williamson sued Wigand for breaching
actual merits, would be buried under a his contract's confidentiality clause dur-
mudslide of derision. The tobacco indus- ing a widely reported appearance on "60
E9 grounds for attempting to buy a wit- CBS lawyers, fearing that the offer to
Now lot's change a few details. Say the preted as an inducement to break the
scientist la a "whistleblower" who asserts contract, initially scotched the segment.
that the tobacco industry is fully awnre After the substanoe of Wigand's charges
that cigarette smoking E lethal and has hit the newspapers, his interviow was
The lawyers providing the salury and Meanwhile, the anti-tobacco forces also
"loans, rather than working for the to- suffered an embarrasement when a for-
bacco industry, are in fact spearheading mer Philip Morris employee recanted tes
There you have the chain of events that Drug Administration (FDAL
actually unfolded recently in a Louisville, Jerome Rivers, a former manufacturing
Ky., courtroom. Yet the near-silence sur- supervisor for the
rounding incident has been deafen- drew his claim that Philip Morris rou-
one of the fow papers to eis. (The FDA hoped to use this
Merreli run the story on Page One, reported that "evidence" to justify regulating tobacco as
Williams, a former paralegal for a drug.)
a law firm representing Brown 3 Wil- Critics incessantly portray the tobacco
liamson $109,000 Tobacco Corp., received a industry nis amoral, even though ita
mortgage and othor financial "crime" consists in selling a legal
rewards. Williams had made internal uct that millions of Americans prod-
corporate documents available to attor- After these
His benefactor was lawyer Richard some of tobacco's foes would comes do well 'dn
Scruggs one of the tobacco industry's take a careful look in the mirror.

it's all just a loan,
least.
ness.

would be roundly condemned on ethi- Minutes.

worked to conceal this fact for decades eventually aired.

the campaign against it.
the
ing. USA Today,

timony he had given to the Food and
tinely measures and adjusts nicotine lev-

with-

conglomerate,

e is enjoy.
to

neys suing the tobacco companies.

when the subject shenanigans, of ethics clear that