HK02328119
SASTA BARBARA SAN14

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO

a
- à
I4PAKIMI 7 - siiles
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willias H. Fishmon
La Jolla Cancer Research Toundation
715 Muir Lands Visto Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. fishean:
and Salk.

a

1A u 1111 ULNI4 :

We are lookina fonerd to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolia rescirch cocmunity. In particelar, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes
should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSO but also at Scripps
The establismrent of à focal center for research proorams on oscodevelopmental
prublems is particularly inely. It will be o: grvat potential importance for
pulling togetter work by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation,
character iztaion and dotermination of the sienificance of huran oncodevelopmiontal
antigens such as alphafoteprotein and carcinuesbryonic ent ioens.
One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship
of increased serura concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinogen
exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and nouse model systors clearly derion-
strate tnet anicals pasodico to hepatocarcinogens have elevated serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developrant of mslionant tumers. It is hoped that systerrtic
study of human scra frum differect sources vill deterning if serus AFP concun-
In addition. the role of env Tonpenstal factors such as hormonal influences on
the production of ancedevelogmeuta gene pralats can be further explored in
different sy:tens. Such data immlies that the prodiution of oucodavelopmental
gene products by tunor cells is net a fixed property of a aiven tumoi but is
We look forard to workino with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the iportant subjer of oncodeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoser exposure.

subject to enviroumestal controls.

expression.
Best regards,
Stewart Srll, H.D.
Professor
SS/nb