l
a
486
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richard L. Nacye, MD, and Woodrow S. may vary in incidenice and Somerset Counties of
Findings Dollinger, MS the men hnd evor
Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one pationt to another. In coal, roentpenographic categories for found to correlate well with quantitative. measurements of e the volume of macules and nodules. recognition of emphysema and chronic cor miners with no roentgenographic silica and collagen,
process but a a sludy of 77 miners of postmortem anatornic dioxide)and collagen content of dust évidence of pneumeconiosis had
rank, low-volatile coul in Cambrin and rylvania. None of central I'ean- éueted between Cuet and 1955 le the Pennaylvanin Ipartmeat of Miner tnd Mineral Inustries stuwed an a verage coal dunt bituminecs work- free silica cuntent of cenl d. ant ie low in all arenn ef Tenneyha- . # nellom helng greater ihan 3.. I owever, the mine Jurt cuhteltra : s of frve niliea In kreater far nonie a wlerground wurkets puch as hof allva-bearing 1 The 77 casce pulverin rand. selerted : 1e keatid (alnne fk le wherialted ench of rvren pirpose R neral hospitals. and rea : quot aml I:Ais, The natch atarted with the patiai girts' dexcriptiunx of the : lunga hen was any mentlon of e ve N ment, parenchy mal nedul . Nina nl er any hlatury of tf. nt's elinical mining. the 1a chart was ean.itod inforacatim emiverndng npa lis aml uthr data were etce: A We Vir E . a as includel in the nudy unly In specilk mines Ladl : a ur in tud Nirmed ls a t pebrille trsis Vir,inia Tla : sail aatel Ik-plae tim alwayr mine  highrr. in" tmatinn a 1+ n inv nhtained flinan'-r nne u f ar , Dell 221 027050
bituminous
pneumoconiosls were eined anthracite roal. Survey ren- roentgenepraphic ing whift ef exposure jer werk-
nodules, and (2) the silica (silicon pulmonory dust macules and emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspnea in addition lo dust rom 103 to 46 of Appalachian chitis and coal workers have rorntgeno- lur, graphie evidenee of pncu- symptoms, and physieal findinge have been dificalt to make, workery pnrumconiods t"blark I is not a aingle disenne but a composite of multiple disonders, each of which and severity, dupendent gruphie aren, exort occupatinal ex posure, and opparent individual sus eeptibility. a Theve nultiple dis enies indude(l)the Fem the Ipanen ns nf Pt- Mhn a Enierity Lullpe et * de i Iro Hera. 4 1tuu ir Sarj) I April J0, 1972 . Vol 220. No 2
Uniertunately. there was poor
which appear to be most closely correlated pulmonale, th tnu chisdeciers eatike font of uir 11AU,UOU fur pariidles per
with dyspnea. A number of PEA, Th
with
macules
hronchielitis.e1) crntriluhu- I Mters and eledrie In panlolular, and pararlcitriclal ; who drill inte onucive ojct di-eave pnvireses 1l reugh a search af appenr to make ditfering enta ilg - a huthera, ographic features of phrumorminsis, 4 twerh to determine = piru- fut casen muconiunix with disalility I In witlemt asruristerl a U ete abnormalities Patients Studiod and Methods Patient.- The patients wrre 77 tin- nt Thir:y-ane hal ulwaye mined nf
meconionia, hut cna relatiuns hetween emphysema: and G) tuinerrulusin and n-k or encountet
such reentgenugrophie abnormalitics. orvusionalh othr di ae preeesses,
These arparate eepecinlly in tions to disahility.' h in the proress Another aim in may vars in inridehre sonie workera upon gro enigenographic
early
stages." Theau dificulties prol of the current
ably arie from the faet that roal individual sunly tn evalate thcir Le y protorel that lavohed every a au
influences ni the ruentyen- ad Ier than a Jrara of agr win man
maculu; (3) silicuris, primary cent dlust dergruunl ininers ef hiteminusn coal Crater, Mrptim Fum - r M A 4 11, a > 2 neirky nerth. Tu l'eanslania W.
(3) clirutic hrun- frum l'nney hania nnel
ginia, of sauthn eitern ether 46 luadl
Hunhy Medical C hie 1 Pnschuhis Dlate lnw-rank bigh-rodatib qual in rminties rr unel orrapatinnsl a tsnl 8 t
Pu
PUBLICATIONS
10346287
