Val 285 No. 29
EDITORIALS
1317
The New England Journal of Medicine Officiat Organ of The Massaclassetts Medical Society the NEw EXGLAND JOURNAL or MEDICINE AND SURGERY and continued in 1828 as Vol. of the BosTON MEDICAL AND SURGICAL JOURNAL PUnLISHES WEEKLY BY THE COMMITTEE ox PUSLICATIONS or THK MARNACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY Claude E. Welch, M.D., Chninman Joseph Garland, M.D., EDITOR EMERITUS Franz J. ingelfinger. M.D., EpIrOR ASSOCIATE Enrroas George S. Richardson. M.D. Boos REVIEWS Robert OLeary, ASSISTANT ÉDITOR EDITORIAL BOARD
ACTION ON ASBESTOS ASBESTO workers are unintentional victims of industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary fbrosis, pleural calcification, mesothellomas and lung cancer. Asbestos exposure is now involving nor only air but also wine and beer." Fibers have been found in the lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex- posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or ferruginous bodles may be, there de no doubt that electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers case in the general population at this time, the presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing. Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by most chemical and physical means and can fioat freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods. Asbestos discases have a long latent sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must be made now, on the basis of "reasonable probabili- ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition of dose-response relations. These thoughts are reinforced by the work df
Founded le 1812 as
widespread, drinking water,
Alexander Marble, M.D, Samuel Proger, M.D.
Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al- Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-
20 period,
Jane F. Desforges, M.D. Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.
Ronald A. Malt, M.D.
Arnold L. Smith, M.D, years or more. We therefore believe that more
Robert E. Johnson, M.D. Norman 2 Levinsky, M.D. Francis D, Moore, M.D. Charies A. Sanders, M.D, Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D Ronald A. Arky, M.D. Dana L. Farniworth, M.D.
John w. Listefield M.D. Murphy and assoclates in this issue of the Journal Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, (p 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in Louis Weinstein, M.D, new ship construction include better than usual John R. David, M.D. exposure data and indicate a high incidence of as- Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. bestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-
Howard Bleich, M.D,
Isadore N. Rosenberg, M.D. Milion C. Paige, a BUSINESS MANAGER manuscript, including references, should
tions. A second study of Murphy et al.' reports two cases of pleural disease (one mesothelioma) in workers who sanded asbestos fioor tiles. Since the
AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Joun degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au- nnl should consult "information for Authors, This material thors simulated the working conditions and found may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour- concentrations of 1.3 Abers per milliliter of room nel. or it may be obrained from the Joumal office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of space, and all material, including higures, should t submit- used threshold limit values. A fber per milliliter of CASE REPORTS, usualiy published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 10 fbers every gence' section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled
be
double
currently figures suggest that has called for control
ted in duplicate.
room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per an alarming number will still accumulate over a 10- A recent Committee report prepared by 4 Nation- asbestos emissions at the source and for protec- The report also calls for further rescarch on the
reference to arcicles reporting closely related cases A very fbers remains in the short case report or a description of a technic submicted as a "Baicr RrcoanixG" should be limited to 500 words, MATERLAL printed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period. cine is covered by copyright, The fournal does not hold itself responsible for statements made by any contributor. NOTICES should received be day, 24 days before date of publication. cies published Requests should be sent to the author. imply endorsement by the Journal, Arbor, Michigan 48106. chusetts 02115.
these lung, panel
al Academy of Sciences
not later than noon on Mon- of
.
REPRINTS: The Jourmal does not stock reprints of the arti- tion of those who are exposed in their occupations. ALTHOCGH all advertising material accepted i expected to biologic effects and the physical characteristics of conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance does not asbestos fibers; such data are urgently needed "if a SUBSCRIFTION PxICES (worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates are 5. U.S. fundsonly. confidence." Although we endorse these recommen- MICROFILME volumes available to regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for through University Microfilms. 315 N. Firse Street, Ann technical controls based on existing COMMUNICATIONS should be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as- land Journal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects
knowledge.
on cells and tissues are important and must be con-
