NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A to campaign woo Da de County teenagers away from smoking le under way bere as part of a nation-wide effort ef the American Cancer Society. By working through achools and youth groups, the society hopes s persuade a large pro- portion of the nation" - young people that amoking may Jead Key urapnn ln the . E paign, le a fine strip detalling the rs against tobaren, ft has already T showa te senth rraders In 15 achools ies edurational televinion, and will 1 broadeast tn siath rrada arience students a the apring. The seventh-grade directed à teacher Rill program, Included a panel discussion in which students directed ques- tions at Dr. Francia N. Cooke, representing the society. "Teachers I have talked to ngree that although smoking la not a serious problem at the seventh grade level, these stu- dents are approaching the age when the problem will be faced," Erene said: 1 value le à nimstrips a E 1 glves studente . logleal argument with whleh ithey eeald retuee ta - . when enreuraged . : atrele et frienda, h adde A Nlm atrip la also being aliman "live' to senior bis - schools in the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October '6 0961
Education
Youth Habits
Cuts Fag
American eigaret soking can bsy reduced 3 per cent through a teenage education program a the high schools. These statistics were presenied Salurday E Walter G. I director of publie edicalion for the American Cancer Society. here for the Florida Division, ACS, annual meeting I said the € I program was direeled at leenagers at a Rsa fer "eurbing cascer heceue d te a,apos esavjetion that soking a a i ef fatal I 2 proepects of reducing cigaret moking y one-fifth were jbosn in . pilot program conducted with 21,000 high I studenta a Purtiand, Ore, i 1 T de a Soadeets I I 1 eere most lkely e d Smoking increased la & successive high school grades. Among boys participating . the Oregon arvey. 143 pes cent payows as freshmen, $1 & cent as sopbemores. IL1 & eent a juniars, 1 3S4 - seniory. A correspond ing ligures for girl atodenta were 46 per I 14.6 per cent, - or the students. SE per cent a the boys soked regularty at least ence . 1 a PP 114 per I a the girie 4 Educalion programs against smoking reduced the mumber ol 1 amokers 1 boys from u cent to 7.7 & cent, and beginning sirl smokers from - PROGRAM EFFECTIVE I eaid the figures projected I . four-ypar perie indicaled that R per eent P high school I could A delerred from smoking through te ACS aducational program: à sudy, 2 i parasa that the moet atactive leving the decision a 1 * * Least ellective, he related. wa the - instructicn not . 1 Aa part e ib anti-emoling eduration prograa, a ACS E devised a Alek strip I afecta A r - for areming in
to cancer.
at the Lage. Kar Hotel. cancet. I . aeume
Evans,
à igaret habit a E per cent and 32 per cent.
s,
per cent
approach wa in
P leng term eect * i
a school classrooin. KILL KULLEN 010033686
