BOULDER DAILY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

-

Area stores

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For tha Dally Camera
nors.
kids.
ke

referring to the Increased enforce-
were issued a summons
penalty Tur selling tobacco to a m
paus to ain_Ang cigaretles. The

ment.

Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky enougb_to
down on selling cigarettes 0 mi- Od appoar ut court. The maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve -horis E DOZS fine
of the American Cancer Soclety's The Supa involved two toams.
Great American Smokecut was in- Each included a uniformed ofcer.
tended to educate clerks that it's il- a piain clothes amcer and two
legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High Schoolgirte, Who
Police targeted gas stations, con. giris' parenis signed a waiver al-
vénience, drug, grocery and dis lowing them la Tale part ur ihc.op:
"lay has neverBeer enforced, said The juvenlles waro told not to
Boulder Policc Ollicer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
"We're letting the stores know had S show Identification.

nesses this week during a crack-

"count Blores. Unul recently, the eration.
thie is going to happen, ahc sald,

the cigarettes. and, if asked, they
(Sce DOULDER, Page 3C)

Boulder police sting stores '
for cigarette sales to minors
At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry
28Lh SL, one of tho giris asked when she WAR istied - im
the cashinr for a pack of Mart ousuRut raid the wns a stu
boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- dent and couldn't RON lit
ness, In plain clothes, po019 up court Costs. HAukeness pe0) to
itna hahind her to witness thc a108209 hor, saying she could-
A placard near the caih regis. the Distriet Attomney to do com a
ter road, P.I. ID my own mother. munity ecrvice instradof paying
clerk asked to see somo identifi- The clorks, not the store own
cation. The buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the
she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don't do it to usund
cd at the license, act it down on stores or clerks, ghe said. "Al-:
the counter, and sold har tho though, when you occ clerks ciy:
After they left, Haukeneas Roulder Polica targeted 15:
up and identified him sloros and cler a al ail bur four
"When I bee them ask for an year. Tha Airst sting, conducted suing
E I think they're going to re- 5t September, targeted 16 stores
fuse the cale, Haukeness sald. und ST clerks received sum:

(From Page (JT

The clerk at Colony Market,

transaction.

prububly work out a dealwith-

No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ainc,
drlver's license, which shownd court coste.

cigarettes.
#P
summons.

ing, you mnight think otherwse. *
recelved summonses
punass tobacco sale
manses,

0s a police officer. Manka
came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wock's
"But they never do."

operation was the.
hs
