WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRISUNE D. 25,605 S 49,326 WACO METSONOLITAN AREA MAR 9 19E9
F.C Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard-. Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission from going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette So long as cigarettes are lega! merchandise, it does not scem right or logical that onc medium of advertising be forbidden the producer E hile newspapers, magazines, billboards and ou ntcr displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expected to review the FCC proposal and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the worning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC sald ie is proposing to refuse licenses 01 broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising because of evidence that smoking is injurious to health and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals to do es they please 50 long as they don't harm anether. a also is a good example of the misgulded philosophy that if nox don't mention something. maybe it won't Congressman Paul Rogers, Hlorida Democret, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com- merce Commitice, said in reference to the proposed FCC rule that the ngnncy had overstepped the bounds of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has any righit 01 tell an advertiser what he could not say in his ndvertisements. Rogers said Congress will take a close Icok at the whole question of regulations on television and radio ndvortising content, not only as to the Fedcrat Communications Commission but in regard to Federal Trade Commission practices as The stakes involved extend beyond the business of broadcasting. They go to the heart of whe:her government buireaus should he allowed to go beyond
advertising.
Hazardous to Your Health."
hurt you and will disappear.
well. 7
tho linits of due proccss and thc law,
