True-faise Questions on the Chenistry and Paychophynlologr, of Odor end Flavor 1. TI Sone nodorn workers auggest that accurate mensurement of vibratlonal frequency (in the far infrared, for example) of nn unknown odorant will pernit prediction of its quatity and intensity. - No elenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone hes any odor; Instead they react with the mucosa forning new products which are sme lied; but T Sone odorants have sterlc or vibrational properttes which force the cone luslon that they are odor less whon they are not. Present evldence strongly suggests thet dlfferent parts of the ol factory receptor aren, Ilke the retina In the eye, are que itty-spocific. - Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquld system) nor the receptor T No one yet has a fire clue as to the criticol relation between the molecule and the receptor which pernits an odor perception. 1 The greater the secretion rate of muco a  or selive, the hl gher thelr "sed and both pH end tomperature influence the quallty of sensation in the 111. - The Ideal Instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sono quantitative range as does an an Ima or human subject. TF Such on Ideal detector has not been developed. IV. - A Iasan observors with head In fixed position con by virtue of the two indopendter.t nostriis eeslly discern stereo saoll effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier ne erorant 1s at the right or left hand, arte as ore uses nis tue ears In locating the source of a sound. - For certaln musk-liko compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger a humon olfact ory response. Adaptation to ono olfactory Qun lity does not signlficant ly reduce sensitivity to any ofher dissiel lar quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all sinllor quelities. - By employing a slalierities aethod of conparing qualities, one con now obtain Ident ity and degrees of difference without rocour se to froble- Vi. - Hunger lowers thresholds stightly to some food Quallt les but not for - It e now possible to Identify the Intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull sieply by expert examination of the electrephyslological record taken from approprlate odor or taste neur ons. T Electrical stimuletion of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and A "metallic" or "alkalind" quality. TF Direct etectrical stimuletion of the olfactory sense has nover yet beon successtully eccompiished. VIL. TF Although total enosela is rore In humans and ageusia even rarer, there is evidence that in analogy to color vision deficiences, sone people are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities whi ile having normal sensitivity to others, TF Toplcal anesthetics applled to the tongue ahos that different quellties TF Certaln endocrine diseese entitles nake = possible for sone people quite sensitively to "sell" such "odor less' sutistances es sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both teste and odor can be reduced to noreal by manipulation of endocrine levels. TF 4 emenopause wonon at the time of ovulation find certaln odors extreme ly disegreeable whlle at other times In the menstrual cycle these seme odor
sone elements possess toste.
11.
sur face In order to be see led.
chemicn! senses.
V.
010 words. others.
of toste di: sappear t different rates.
they wlr Judge quite pieasant.
ovi
