SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
et al. (1987) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
In e cross-sectional investigation in one building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validased complaints associated with the "sick building syndrome questionnaire. The sympsoms were more common a baild- were measured on a linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and Ar the same ame, the micro-environmene (environmenial humidification. irrespective of the ase of the buildings. A characteristics s the breathing zone rather chen area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air samples) I characterized by measuring 'ammadun quality parameten was not described Skov et al. (1987) es relacive humidiry, respirable suspended particulases, car. amined indoor air qualiry symptoms in 14 modern 1 bon dioxide, noise level, lighring iniensiry, relasive à town halls and M older control buildings. A level of rymp midiry, and airflow. No relationship I seen beoween I : related 01 . "Beecing" factor (carpets, upholstery the degree of sympioms and age. education. or duration and horizontal surfaces) ad the "macro-molecular compo of employment at the building or time spent s the build- neat" of dust. They also demonstrated a relationship berween hn on a daily basis. Suristically, complaints were the number of hours spent photocopying and using carbonless significandty more frequent among turyour I Envi- copy paper and tbe level of complaints. Other studies have ronmental characieristics associated 1 a increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985) complaint levels in this group included decressed airflow and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) cootribute models, there I an association berween respirable ae- cause of complaints in the sick building syadrome by I pended particulates and the levels of boch mucost - suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et brane and rysemic complaints. Sasisfaction wish the F (1965) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. I exvironment a predicted by percepcion of dreft ferences a the concentrations of enviroamental pollutants insensiry I also associated * complaints. ae strate . relationship berween symptoms and boch ares i of che sick building syndrome should camine ples measuring dust and . "macro-molecular" traction, 4
. E
velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended par a indoor air quality complaints.
ticulates and dry-bulb semperature. In 1 did not clearty contribure a the degree of rympton although regression models PIP suggest dhar compl were not independent of thermal parameters.
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual berwecn rooms la a mechanically and a naturally ventilated building. They studied the rooms with the I comp i and used area samples. Skov et * (1987) & des Area samples ia buildings may not be represeotacive of the exposures le different points in I rooms. Physical characteristica such as windows and partitions, computers, and shelving may infuence sir currents. Radiant heat may
mulsiple exposures simulsancously 2 1 prycho- in area # social measures 0 identify predictors of complaints in
indoor spaces. INTRODUCTION
Complaints lermed the E building syndrome" bave lead 01 uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally. moet - led to numerous investigations in the last 15 i They are lutants resukt from point sources, o6 they will be diluted - thought to occur primarily a newty constnacted ofice i subject a fartber removed from the soarce. The micro # € and, at least in the past, were thought to be due to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1984). Nevertheles, . different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroe wide variety of causes have been identifed ia specific I ment of a building In addition, all applied occupational and inchuding inadequate temperature and relative 1 8 enviroamental bealth research that attempts 01 relate dose o trol. noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds bealth effects suflers from the problem that dose a penerally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, eavironmental tobecco measured at several points in time and then extrapolated 5 smoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicie exhaast or allow development of exposure classifications over decades spent I contaminated air and boier fumes. Sbers released - most heakh effects are measured a a 1 1 of from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures. Where the variability of I A group of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegaa where the level of symptoms Kmu change not merely trom et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri day os day but from hour to hour, 1 a stratery mast I (Robertson a al. 1985) E unable to identify differences in attempted to characterize air-qualiry parameters in the micro wet-bulb globe tempersture. dry-bulb temperature (semper- eevironment and set these charscteristics a relation es the ature), relative humidity. air velocity. formaldehyde, or pos- level of individual complaints at a pven point s F This itive or negative ons between several rooms la a building report presents results of a croms sectional investigation of . with natural and a building with mechanical vencilacion. problem building using . self-administered. linear I where both 3 of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom : I a Ammuant Profenor of Medione aad ef Industrial and Enviroomental Heakh Sciences at the Univeruty of Pburgh Schoot of Medicine and Publc Heahh. a I a Director, Enviroomeetal Heahh and Salery, Camepe-Metlon Univeruty. Pirtsburgh, A
(Kreiss and Hodpson 1984; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986). marily 01 mechanical ventilation The same group of authors
results a preater than the difference in avernge samples, an No investigations in the peer-reviewed literature have
Sa5
