Polluted Data

by SamuelS. Epstein
The author survevs the record of
indusrs-senerated data
Exalaing a nlei - shn 2 LnAIFaInEs UI data-
from glun wenbupru - baased mterpretation ma
mpulatmm. suppressnm and 3 l outright de-
sit IHHI -ate sommmpla € esper iall when
prohtable in hmalgirs are mohed Alarmingh.
unh a idens - Iw jushes strong reserations as 0I
the saluluty of an data develuped h institutons EF
inde uluals ulunr ronuma intetesis are dueih ET
Informatium a the cunen of 2 onomis and
pulaw. al jmer Bhrenmm-making at all level ef gm
ernment wwnkimant the arv aslalnhts of a bod of an
fotmation, 41 the lusn al h his h the relative merits
al ahernate pesln 9 an z € red and unsidered
H thn sla matee nt data base is 3 nihed ur inal
ud. then whateirt de nmIs JTE trau hed saux alsobe
unjnt 11 mnalul. threatenang the laben el deme
The a - whr lming Lalk al all beneht and nk
data. In whe h nu regulater des isiuns are based.
umE Irem thr indlunit 1es thenehes bemg 1egulat.
e Ihre duta ate eithet generated and mtet pteted
BHIE anel UIINETSER undes EUBLE * le industts
a H and sul ony preses

udee th alle ted

(1JIk VENT rinmet

à at ae i

Manl ite this pixess N asadre ef snnsulianis,
mtitutes, whenr duers af apptn al prini ides the
h idcoutirs of thrve sonvltat.t Are ofien hidden new

In un-lunrr w arsstihe stall LM In semmets al labuta generall from presiguns unnerunes or researh
In-luniw sentta sall 41C 10 mmvmaane te 15 dana unh an adduimal mantle ef auther it The
anl deselspment and markeung departments. AnN onh from the pahla hun alvr from ther owi uni -
i le hunt theit prudu nt eN E ante a1 unEs a insistuteans The mdmral inerests et thew
mrie Indusasal inTat i A1 . suall dw anded s smsulants ate enhet FM saslened te thr agenu ies
snh t mne = 3 Lalwn. atutirs anel unn riun E 1 lune adunnts and espen semmitires thes sit.
walunt i luv ing lis leen salis ned ET the uprn un if s lw d 411 usalh mant. par a sutidentsal
sunita  1s 4 unt BRRRBARASDE te umpoken prrsme Canshtamt 11 thr Ciruralut - Dete
and HI punln mfe matin at intet petatin The mt 4MIBETH problem hwh industrsully grn
sonustcas huh wha aiE prtened a the uteiesis al etated data n a pen salas Deeph a emned In
mnluvn ern theigh thi hnnted the malnpn d dat sulmmatted in 17 te the
prtseptn a mote hkels lo refirt shont ie m tathe Twwl aml Thug Admant atenn FDA) In induvrs
Sumut a Ip . Ful fait e a uhafterhl andra mmm lewerl addtne petanmy at ginally shmmeel i the

ILI

from
teseare

asstent wth cihn
the

at à lew av hntot in diav n fium
the held al X upatmal and envitemmemtal SJn a

maiket. à plar IR . haidh
dduomprnines capstalnh
thr
irmma nng

bles La's hwk

Ihe a ae iE1 raget fu the i al future
e than he * 1E15 E mtete 7 and salues
hul i - al d f e : Heulth snrtuh if IN Fawl ael
si Meduuf - a Nng Ih - a sita lA
hu Hui af pafih hm les l
detrtrsding
h pastuh
1t

u munldns - lmul addane petitianms thrn Cammus
sinne Helt Lrv omplamed Alumnt half a the
Admmsat.atem hune hrrn H à
plre 1 har ml aleipalel pnewldn, she regula
asl thr 1rlens lune

-
Dng
funhe
Hee
topased

a

sul
truned