HKU2223022

Life Sciences Vol. 15. pP. 1291-1300
Printed in the : A.

Fergamon Press

METAROLISM a BENZO (AlPAENE BY KICROSOMES FRON
TISFUEE ar PRECIAT AND FITAL MAMSTERE
Irene * Mang, Ronald R. Rasmussen, and a Timothy Crocker*
Can - Besaarch Institute, Univarsity of California, - Franeiace, and Depart-
ment ef Community ard Invironmental Medieine, Univereity of California, Irvine*.
(Received in final form 26 August 1974)
Summary
Pretreatmest of hansters vith bento (a)pyrene (BaP) grestly increased
à si vitre netabol la of BaP by lung alerosones fron prognant han
stare, and 3 I effect on the netabolien of BaP E iiver niere-
momoe. The profuetion of various metaholites of RaP by lung niere-
sonos ve increaned to different extenta: 3-hydrory-Baf (3-CH-BaP
was one of the najor metabolites the metabolic yielda of 9,10-
dikydredibpbrser-Bor (9,10-d101) and 7,0-diel vere increased nore
than that ef t 4,5-d1e1. In - i of 1iver microsomes, only the
yielde of $,10-dio1 and 7,8-diol ware incrensed ovar the control
levels, The presence of eyclohexene oxide in the incuba tion #
tures decreased the produetion of the diole. Basal-level enryme
activities in placental, fetal 1iver, and fetal akin microsones in
metaholisine MP vere very lov, Pretrent thent of pregnant hainatern
vith Rp indaced RaPemet tabolieing enzyes in fetal tisrue 2 fold.
Banso (alpyene (aP ie . carcineser and envirenmental conta a nant that ie
found in coal tar, nineral oil, car exhaust, tohacco smoke, moked fooda, ete.
(1). In vitro stadice shoved that netabolie activation et Bar 1s required for
ita intarartics vith proteine and nuclele acide (2,3) Parller studias vith
: 1iver pr eparations :4,5) and hanatar 1iver micro - a (6,7) shoved that Bar
le metatelined minly 8 phenolie and dihydredibydrowy fatall der *BRATaSAT and
to quinones whirh are enzynatic OE air oxidation peoducte of enstable phenolic
netabolites (4,9 as vell an some unidentified more polar metabolites, The
metabolies ef MaP has generally been neasured A the production of 3-hydroxy-
BaP (3-OR-RaP) ich Je often one of the major metalol ites in aaata (31. 3-0H-
nap ie tesie to aitured calle (9), i it shovs very l1ttle interaction V th
DINA in vitro (61 2 has not been ahown to % carcineeenic. & the other hand,
K-regton spowides ef relatel polycyelie aronatic hptrocartens (TAM)bind to cell-

1291