Pwu

Careinagenesls vul 2 m 12 "SELE-IELEdd r66I

Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke
carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamn)-1C-pyridyl)-1-butanone and
benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of

C3420

chemopreventive agents

Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin
Amencan Health Foundation. Valhalla, NY 10595. USA

models examined 01 date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class
of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco
smoke (I). We have chosen the All mouse because previous

The purpose of this study SEM to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce
model for the evaluation of chemepreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced
lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to
by 4-(methylnitresamnal-1-0-gyrhiyridyl)-I-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined
and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated.
individually or in combination. Groups of (emale A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg
were treated by either intragastrie gavage (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventlive activities of a number of
intraperitoneal injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP,
and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethyleitrosamine and 7,12-dimethylbenzlalanthracene (9.10).
either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse OI evaluate the effects of
forestomach were counted. The ig route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK
proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4,11,12). Results obtained with the A/J mouse can be replicated
because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate
the Injection site and associated mortality. A dose response (PEITC) Is an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by
relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 rat (11,13).
mice killed 9 or 61 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single
treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens, This may not be realistic with respect to tobacco
of 24 jimol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke. which contains at least 40 carcinogens (I). The
have been expeeted extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP, are important
when given by the ia route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either
wcre complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP.
The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted 01 use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to
evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occury during
dose of 24 umol of each, administered in cight weekly smoking. in addition, the model should be relatively rapid and
subdoses ig, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore we examined tumor yields obtained
dosing. This reginen induced 10.524.4 lung adenomas upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for
mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen. 00 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61
ethyl Isothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a
and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibiter of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC
tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP
efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. lts purity wat established a HPLC as >997 BaP (93% purity),
Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were
could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dint containing s com eil. as prey viously
lo play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups u 1 as samemarized in Table 1 At age 7 weeks. each mouse wa
kers suoumng-1-(4piAdeveresostupdpewu)-p (NNK*) treated by imtraperitoneal (ip.) injection or by intragastric gavage lig) with
carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung all rodent dissolved in che o.1 E used for treatment. Injections and gavages were carried
*Abbreslations: NNK 4(mobylainosamico) pyldylrlhonose individuat dese was cee eighch of the sotal. Equimolar doses of NNK and
Bat. benzolalpyrene: PEITC, phencihyl inothiocyanaic: BITC, benayl Ba were wied in most of the combination groups, because the amounts of

which these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were slven

The A/I mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively

of NNK and BaP ut combination was established in the
that Bal was more tumorigenic 0) the lung than NNK

Most previous studies in the A/I mouse have examined

Comparisons of

and RaP given individually showed representatives of the lung

in tobacco smoke (1.

Ht

carcinogens

We sought e develop a model which could be used to

5.9 a 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse S V 0.001) and completely
thls study provlde a conventent model for assessing the
induction by tobacco smoke carcinomens

inbiblting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods

NNK was synthesized in the American Health Foundation Organic Synthesis
BITC 1989 purity) and PEITC (98% (Aund were obtained from the Aldrich
Chemical Company (Milwaukee. WI). Cottonseed oll wa purchased from
Female AI mice. age 5 weeks. wene obtoined from The Jackson Labaratory
(Bar Harbor. ME. They were housed under standard conditions in the
The design of the bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1, The mice were divides
pulmonary the appropriate chemical in O.1 ml couonsced oi. NNK an BaP were borh
out for & consecutive weeks. The toral doses qe siven in Table Fach
NNK and total eareinogenie polycyelie hydrocarbons ia sobacce smoke are

Sigma Chemical Co. (SA Louis, MO

Introduction

agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).

and benzolalpyrene (BaP) (1) NNK ie a
isothiocyanare, in, intruperitoncal, is, introgastrie gavage.

N

o Oxford Unvenity Pres

2721