LOS ANGELES TIES Los Angeles, California October 20, 1954 E been proved. lale
haiel uuda the premise that hination n a partirular type a ineetion hetween riea in each of e three rategnries net smoking and disease 2 has alrrady produred a sale Might Take Six Months one t is, so all can be made Dr. E. Cuyler Hammont. that wav. Ifnot. the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Clarrnce Cnok Litte complete statistica! study to chairman of the scientifc ad- date, said that "some say we visnry board and scient fie di- tive evidence before develop trs Resrarch Committee. de- ing a safe cigarette. but no ies which he helieves wold nne has said just what the de prndure some nf "the defni fnitive e idenre wnd be." tive evidence' 1n waich Dr Hr sand he "took issue' with Hammond referred. In his talk in the American "We wiil tackle
JI 5 cigarette. scientific re- search should prove which should fnd one, "since peo- ple like to smoke cigaretres." rector o: the Tobarco Indus seribrd te outlines nf siud- Tackle Unknewns
Calls Safe Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming
Expert for
Eniversity atatistician should wait for
more defini-
NEW YORK. Ort. 61 ALP) thia viewnoint.
The rvidenre connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eously mans o! the unknowne simultan- arette smoking with hath Hammond sair the relation- la this field of tobacen dee ut lung cancer and heart dis- ship nf rigare:te smoking to relation to Euman health, a case 28 "overw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. We seek delinitive onee about developing "a safe health. than the relationship findings in an area where cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer 1 program to much suggessive work has cal scientist told the annual find "a safe cigarette from been done. The nrogram nt meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard reengnizes that wr Tobacco Industrv Research tohacen, there are varinus relationship hetween rr ra. Committee ansounced some oftypes nf fiters, and theze are mental factors, ineludine the details nf :tR xeicatifie re varioua teehn'ques > curing The most impertant
system was more important, line of the industrv's research might prove surceasful in kix dn not have todav the experi- months, with luck," he said menta! evidence that - ner-
Cancer Soclety today At the same time the scien- tifc advisory board of the srarch program 14 a ch in he thar
Outlines Deserihed There are various types C tobarcn, he gaid, and it may some fortuatons rnm- S01 ANGELES EXAVINER Los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
mit scientifo ennclzsnns PA. garding the anr rfert rause smokine and lune rancer nproceet zet un was a dirres udy C current lung cancer raset - 10 medical centers n tle a . ed Statex and Canada,
It will Inelude numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of amokers, as well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspeets of the research were disclosed today. The specitio research grants, financed Aq the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY ON TOBAGCO YORK, Oct. 19 a A broad abx point study seek Ing kmnowledge whether eigarets or other forma of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards was announced today. It in the first announcement of a big research program headed Aq the selentifie ad. visory board of the Tobacco In dustry Rese reh Committee
NEW
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
