19

Elu/ri

MHT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Nr York Timer Servier

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars -
made cigarettes last year, ringing became an issue even in recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22

TAIPEI I The Marlboro COw. up sales of $119 million. In 9861 trade B between the United New Taiwan dollars (79 cents)for .
boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- States and Taiwan. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes bow hold nearly 81 shieng Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits o0 cigaretie advertis
town, His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered a ing is Japan ard more liberal. Com-
This frenetic, fast-growing 0a- cigarette exports last year, primari teachers told me that junior high lawed le the United States in 1971.
tion of nearly 20 million pcopie A because both Tawan and Jepan school students - 12, 13 years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
To introduce their unfamiliar Asis rose 76 percent last year. re- Adnooo joy . $16 billion trade surplus with than the health- warning labels
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $i billion in new sales. the United States. But those people mandated in the United States.
Wacturers have essentially intro- la Japan, which has . population are just like robbers. If you are a Tbe companies say American

and dod-pus-mons. stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
guitar-playing. pep-sueaf promot. Indeed, Asian sales accounted

panies can advertise on TV after

oul this city, next to posters & - peroent.
of Winston cigarettes.
smoked 34 billion
year - and for the ETE time, a
subrtantial number of them were liamsoo
made ea America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to
paonp cigarette advertising to the smoke 300 billion
ialand, and that has created a furor.
Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled
tbe American
ing teen-agers 01 unke da moking, more than 10 perceat last
botly deny.
operation that had monopolized percent by 1992.
pressure from W ashingion. In the alcohol.
# cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw
wacturers at . time when sales in
laws in way up.

"They amusement places to 5:50 P.M. and are now conducting
out cigarettes and gifu," an aggressive campaign Television

er

for



most of the growth in American La said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-
last dropped long-standiog restrictions. - are DOM smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry label that,
S the Brown & Wu- rette companies promote cigareties roughly translated, says, "For the

Corp. exports of like that? It's
of 120 million and where
people a
cigarettes year in that.
American
the past year. The market share oy
-

have
O.K. f
them

sake & health, don't smoke 10o
the whole markets. We en much" - a wamning much milder
"uv - human being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan
not s much because of the adver-
tising as because they are of better
there ia any- quality and taste better. American
thing 2uoin with AS way they are cigarettes are made of blended to
waacie cigarettos,

MAS

cigarette manufactur-
Tbey are not allowed 9 advertise
de small stores where cigarettes are
tions. Cigarette manufacturen may
dom cxoceds 200,000.
Before last you, foreign #
girl cent K tbe market. Taiwan

companies of entic American cigarettes increased to 3 vigorously
- The Roreraemeol-adeiauured dicts that it could grow to 15 a 20 sales pitch.

* charge a American companies from u percent 5 1986, the promoting their producta and a4 bacco and bave less which tar than Tai-

are not

Department of Agriculture oid thry have no plans to change their blendod.
American pressure 55 open their have they pusbed a do so, they saY.

E cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials tbey rosent l00 television or in newspapers. Nor
The government agreed to allow markets to producta that éndanget Tbey can advertise only through
otbers into tbe business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and posters hung near cigarette racks or
year since stiff restrictions on for- "This really burts our feelings, kold, a well a through promo
a American cigarettes ET Taiwan N., tbe United Shau-kong Sustes docs legislator. not en- also place 120 E . year in mapt-
have soared, generating much- courage its people to smoke, why zines, cach of whosc droulation sel-
and tbe number of anti-smoking causC of American ada. They hire rettos aocounted for leas than -
According to U.S. Depart- arettes troe in nightclubs. k's 3 digarettes, banned imports at
msbot o Agnoulture, people B. Tai- difficult for funak boys to resist, 70,000 retail outlets licenaed lo sell

tised, altbough it does now.

a

peaiod growth for American man- export to Tuwan? Younger
the Unitod States are way down and femalcs are smoking .

RE
po-mak-61

young attractive
immoral .

Ra
E

the

wearing short skirts n. give 2 cig posed strict quotas 8
and then it becomes a habit. It's digaretter and imposed sif tariffs.

As rerult, imporied digaretiee cost