RAP

MERICAN JOURNAL OF
Public
Health

Editorial
Volume 77, Number *
AMred I MD. MPH

May 1907 Establiahed 1911

EDITOR Less Hazardous Smoking and the Pursuit of Satisfaction
Cigarettes deliver drugs: al rool smoking n drug laking Scarnihe wurk has
confirmed nicotine as a powerfully reinforcing psychoac tive drug For the consum
ASSISTANT EDITOR er. then; ulra low-yicld cigarettes raise, the simple issUE uf drug cullang u
I 1. I DPH- adulteration. The onsgiosfactoriness of ultra low yeldeigareues a een inhe % an y
of customers for these pruducts even in healh conse wus California As nuted kq
Maron and Fortmann in this issue of the Journal, only - N PE cent of vnukers in -
EOITORIAL BOARD population based sample smuke cigarcties in the rangeol 0 tu mg An  a
Mary F. 1 DPH (1987) 2mg "tar Despne the publicny about dnease nsks of smuking and the widepre -
Cheperton belief thal ultra lew pA cigarettes are less hazardous must smukers will nut sais
Doris 1 RN DPH (199 the sireet for these cigarettes, let algne walk the advenied mile
No doubt smokers have routinclyied ultra lo yild 4 rgareties and ast a
Joy d Dvyloos: MA (19891 routinely have rejected them an unsainfying A - a . m nacutin - a
Manis s. Favere. ao (199 deliners I 80 per cent diluting air in tach puf 1 es by uffiual smol ang ma Lane
Frederich C. Green MD (1968 Those smokers who karn the unchs of compensatory smuking are mure hkely lu
Mary Grace Kavar DPH. MS 11988 persist in smoking these cigarettes than are thost smukers who do not de sclup
satisfactory compensation iee hniques For ulura low yicld cigareies, the main
smoking lee hniques are blu hang the deluting air venis on Ners wih lips ur Anger
Kenneth d Rogens, MD MPH (197) taking larger puffs, and. as Maron and Forimann renund u semply smuk ung eue
Zena T MA. MB 119 cigarenes per day A smokes sell selection beas icompensators remain tm
Ferndo H Trevino. PD. MPH (1987) compensators kave) may cause much of the discouraging panern Lisnal in anyd
Experimenial Eridenr . Recent espermenis show . more rnc ouraging pIs ture
I Devid Wmy, MD. MPH (198 of whal might be ganed from the wdespread uE uf ultra lew yicld 4 cite by
amgkers who refuse to quit Surgout West, e al randomiy assigned 14 ymukcrs lu
remain wwh their oen brand (average - 2 aicoline 14
STAFT le switch le ue utra low yeld trand 01 m nacutine.
William H. MeBeash, MD MPH smoking. the ultra low yield group had plasma ncoline levels thal w unh au p
Eserutive DeerelMenogeng Ealirer cent of the on brand gruup i9 4 V 22 a ngml carbon monos de le vels Jiflered by
Adrenne $ MD 30 per CeRI 10 - : 33 2 ppm) LAlshough nue nuted an the Mrthul
Publr reniona Drecr eaplicaly instructed no to block Aiser VENS IX West, Personal Cummun catiunil
Doyne Baley Simalarly, in the expenmental component uf their report. Benuwit et 1 famind
Aasistent Manegt i parial compensatiun in smukers whe were forced lu smote ultra lue - i CeC IE:
Marva Barepit (Behavioral bluc king of Bler went was not forhidden ia thi Mudy. but ! hase hecn
Edurial A anisten discouraged by detanls of the procedure *
The combunrd lesson of the cruss sectnal surveys and the forced su hin
Freder T i experiments i 2  there is lo be ma imal progress with the curens wyle ullfa hre
I Dobbs yield cigarciie HS use Reds lo be end ouraged mure forc cefully One ul the de tasuims
Predur 1 Adyeruing dautent smokers dun't put up wsth uhtra lus yichs 1s thal higher yield cigaretes an cnls an
easy purcha away Imagine chi ate lover las €d wath an V rall à ue un 4
desen iland sucha candy might secm real but in well su - candy sne the  d
CONTRI BUTINC EDITORS prewloc hes olales would gather dust especially / Ihey were nue
-. Aanas. JD, MPH the more satislying hocolates.
cigarette manulacturers were requred lu 1 only F
1 Healh Thre - Now (guarding against more problemats filter deugni"). these cigaretie mighi 2 -
1 H Tihon. MD, DrPH grealer efflecs on capesures lo smoke tosans than they du an the wie upen mrt a Jux
Nora L dr Field a drug content of medications a ancily regulated S shuuld be Jrus vacid ut Raterie
Je # E smoke Many smukers would over imuke these cagarettes, by break Bun ut hite 1
I i bocking vent i and by smoking greater aumbers per day And sume smul t

Irene H. Buter, no (1987)
Jeaa I MD MPH (19)
Philie d Weiler, MD (19h

Julise A. Waller, MD 16061 reviewed an the curreni report

tar a 1. smuk :
tar a Oer 10 Jays ul
en :

Michele Hores
Sz 1 ed re T
Barbure G Rosenk 1 PhD
5 Me 1007, Val 77. No

heape Ihan
garctic

ir

539

2501662717