BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
Area.stores
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For the Delly Camera nars. kids. k,
referring to the increased enforce- Auuad Tur selling tobacco to ml tried a Anq The cigarelles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky enougb_to nesses this week during a crack. get'caugnt a sued summons- down on selling cigarettes 01 mi- to appoar u court. The maximum The sting. conducted on the eve -noris a 002s hine. of- the American Cancer Soclety's THO Suna involved two tcams. Great American Smokeout. was lo Each included u uniformed omcer. tended to educate clerks that it's il- a piain clothes omcar and two legal to sell tobacco producte to Fairviow High School girts, Who Police targeted gas stations -uds sy parenis signed a waiver al vénience, drug, grocery and dis- lowing them o hllr partin.thc.op- "Taw has never Beer enforced, said The juvenlles wero told not to Jopmnog Policc OMicer Mary Man plead with, or beg the clerk to sell We're letting the stores know had to show identification.
oount SAJMS men, recently the eration. this is going to happcn," ahc sald,
the cigarettes. and, If asked. they (Gee BOULDER Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry 28uh1 SL, one of the girls asked when she Was istred a Sum, the cashlar for a pack of Mart mons, ous raid Dhe was a stur boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- dent and couldn' arord Ine ness, In plain clothes, poons In court costs. Haukeness pou -01 lina-hahind her to witnese thc a1082o9 her, saying she -pinos A placard near the cath regis. the Disiriet Attorney to do cam ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice Inatrad of paying A clerk asked to see some identifi- The clorka, not the store own cation. The buyer produced lier ers or manugcrs, have to pay the she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it to usjund od at the license, act it down on stores or clerks, she said. "AL: the counter. and sold her the though, when you ce clerks After they left, Haukeness Roulder Police targeted ST stepped dn and identified him aloros and clerks ai but four self as a police offcer. Manka recelved summonses. came in and wrote the clerk a Thie wock's TATIA, I see them ask for an year Tha Airst sting, conducted E I think they're going to a in September, targeted 16 stores: fuso the calc," Haukeness sald. and ST clerks received Rum
(From Page 1C)
The clerk at Colony Market,.
trensaction.
Aqmard work out a deal-with-
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, driver's license, which showed court coste.
cigarettes. summons.
ing, you inight think otherwise AC - was the: operation secund tobacco sale sting Hase
"But they never do."
monses,
094990FF02
