H K#2223022
Life Sciences Vol. 15. dd 1291-1300 Pr inted in the E
Perganon Press
- ROLISM R aPO 3 PD BY KECROSOMES FRON TT ar PaPCOLANT AND TITAL MTENE Irena T. Wang, Ronald R. Ra smunsen, and T. Timothy Crocker Cancer Besearch Institute, Univereity of California, San Praneieco, and Depart- nt ef Commanity aed Ivironmental Medieine, Univereity of California, Irvine*. (Received in final for 26 August 1974) Sumary Pretreatment ef hansters vith benzo (a)pyrene (BaP) grestly increased the s vitre metabol Lae of Bat T lung alerosobes fron prognant - eter :e and a le effect on the metaboli a of E E liver atere somoc. # produetion of various astabalitas of Rap E lune niere- sonos vae increaned to different extenta: 3-hydrery-BaP (3-CH-BAP was one of the nater metabolites the metabolic yielde of 9,10- dikpbredilpber-Bar (9,10-dio1) an 7,0-diol vere increased more than that ef the - .5-die1. Io the ehee of liver nierosonee, only the yielde of 9,10-dioi and 7,8-diol sare incraasad ovar the contrel levels, The presence of cyclohexene oxide in the incuba tion mix- tures decressed the production of the diole. Basal-level anryme aetfvit Le in placental, fetal liver, and fetal ekin sicresonas in mataholizins AP vere veryr low. Pretraatment of pregmant hana ters with à Endaced RaP-metaholising entyes a fetal iere 2-3 fold. Benso(alprrene CDaP1 ie . carcineses and anvirenmental cont ant that - found in coal tar, nimeral oil. car exhaust, tohacco soke. - kaet foode, etc. à In vitro anaties shosend that netabolis actiratios of BaP ie required for ite lataractia with proteine and nclele acide (2,3). Farller studies wieh rat 1iver preperations 3 and hanstar Liver micros (6,7) showed that BAP le meta elieed mainly 8 phenolie and dihgdredihydrewy taioll derivatives, and 9 quinones whteh ete enzynatie oE air osidatian producte ot enstable phenolie metabolitas is'e) as well a nome anidentifies nere polar metabolites, The meta olies of BaP has generally been neamured t the production ef 3-hydrowy Bar (3-OR-RaP -leh je afren E of the major metaho: tes in vitro 031. 3-OH- Dap ie tosie to muitured calle (9). hut it shove ven 1irtle interaction vi th DRUA in vitro 661 and has not been shown t be sarcinecenie On the ather hand, Keregton epowides ef relats polyeyelie aronatic hylrocartens TAI
to cell-
1295
