NEW-YORK POSI, FRIDAY, MAY 17, 9661 L1
INEWNOFNRUST
Aucrina3 àee comtimnontiv pbrished dain newspper

Anti-smoking skulduggery
Imagine this scenario: A scientist who leading
claims to have discovered that cigarette Scruggs opponents. insists he didn't
smoking poses Do danger to human uments.
health is about to testify on behalf of the enterod Perhaps the
tobacco industry Suddenly it's revealed clear
that he is secretly receiving a salary from

"buy" any doc-
not. But unless he has
banking business, # de un-
why. Scruggs pmom provide Wil-
blower: He also represented former
latter's legal fees in the event Brown &
pay Wigand's legal costa could be inter-

tobacco lawyers. It also emerges that the liams with such substantial "loans.
same lawyers have bought the e Moreover, how are rensonable people to
scarcher a house and have co-signed two interpret Williams' "salary"?
car loans for him. In his defense, the sci- This ie not the first time Scruggs has
entist insists that, except for the salary, been involved with a subsidized whistle-
Question: How would the media likely Brown & Williamson executive Jeffrey
react? A huge brouhaha to say the Wigand. CBS News promised to pay the
The scientist's research, whatever its Williamson pons Wigand for breaching
actual merits, would be buried under a his contract's confidentiality clause dur-
mudslide of derision. The tobacco indus- ing a widely reported appearance on "60
E grounds for attempting to buy a wit- CBS lawyers, fearing that the offer to
Now let's change a few details. Say the preted as an inducement to break the
scientist a a "whisticblower" who asserts contract, initially scotched the segment
that the tobacco industry is fully awnre After the substance of Wigand's charges
that cigarctte smoking is lethal and has hit the newspapers, his interview was
The lawyers providing the salary and Meanwhile, the anti-tobacco forces also
"loans, rather than working for the to- suffored an embarrasement when a for-
bacco industry, are in fact spearheading mer Philip Morris employee recanted tes
There you have the chain of events that Drug Administration (FDAI
actually unfolded recently in a Louisville, Jerome Rivers, a former manufacturing
Ky., courtroom. Yet the near-silence sur- supervisor for the conglomerate, with-
rounding the incident has been deafen- drew his claim that Philip Morris rou-
Today, one of the few papers to eis. (The VIA hoped to use this
run the story on Page One, reported that "evidence" to justify
Merreli Williams, a former paralegal for a drug.)
a law firm representing Brown a Wil- Critics incessantly portray the tobacco
liamson 000'601$ Tobacco Corp., received n industry nis amoral, even
mortgage and othor financial "crime" consists in
rewards. Williams had made internal uct that millions of selling legal prod-
corporate documents available to attor- After these
Fis benefactor was lawyer Richard some of tobacco's foes ethics comes do well 'dn to
Scruggs one of the tobacco industry's take a careful look in the would mirror.

it's all just a loan.
least.
ness.

a would be roundly condemned on ethi- Minutes."

worked to conceal this fact for decades. eventually aired.

the campaign against it.

timony he had given to the Food and
tinely measures and adjusts nicotine Jev-

ing. USA

tobacco
regulating
as
ita
a though
Americans enjoy.

neys suing the tobacco companies.

when the subject shenanigans, of it is clear that

-