DALLAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Texas April 14, 1954
Tobacco Firms New Cancer NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing Industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers. picture of the relationship of committee issued co causes lung cancer.
Ask Studies growers and tobacco tiona!" statements linking smoking Among those quoted by the com- and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer United States Gov- ernment, which said a a 1953 E cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of lung cancer for exhaustive research to estab- had not been established. Several lish the basic cause of the disease. of the institute's scientists aso Others quoted were the Damon A booklet con- Runyon Fund, which called for taining previously published state- more research, and Chicago a ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgeon Dr. Max Cutier, who itles doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons by olher cancer experts that tobac- develop lung cancer partly because may of smoking but that to accept à The earliest, whitten ln 1923, said conclusion of a direct there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientific relationship and none that would produce turnors. hazardous. The most recent; dated ast March "It smoke la the lungs were 16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of be done before causes of lung can- have had it long ago, cancer, tbe all cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cookk report Little, The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratory, Bar Har- $ January to combat mounting bor, Maine. charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the up of nearly every major cigarette University of Texas School of Medi- manufacturer and organizations cine; the Metropolitan Life Inaur
alded
Inatitute of the
The tobacco industry research were cited.
we'd a
can a establisbed
director of the Roscoe B, Jackson ance Company and British author itles, Nearly alt those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until an absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report SEA described by an industry spokesman as an A terim" statement, nouncement pending ane of the choice of a prominent scientist to supervise basic cancer research de be f- nanced by the industry. That scien- tist will decide how the industry's cancer-research money s to be spent, No date has been set for his selection. At the last count, the committee said: there were more than 850 cancer research grants in the United States alone, "any one of which might produce evidence to unlock the secrets of lung cancer,
ITO 138763
