180 East : Avanue Ncw York, tew York 10028 Telophone (212) C22-6300
Foundation
OFFICERS AND BOARD CF TAUSTEES David J Mahoney, Chairman President Nonan Simon, Ine. Emest L Wynder, M.D., President Thomas J. Ross, * Sacretary Vice President Amorican Airlines, int- Warner o Cosgrova. dr. Treaturer Manaçing Partner Shieics a Company Trustees: Louis V. Aronson, il Prasident Ronsen Corporation Mr. Chanes A Dana Frederie C. Dacker Presicent Dacker Communications, ine. Walter Senior E. Panner Harson Poat, Marwick, Matchell a Ca. deorge James, M.D. Dean The iunoni Sinai Schoot of Medicine waliam J. Levist Chairman of the Board Levitt & Sons, iec. G. wetism Mcore Presicent Fielderest Milis, Inc. Josezh M. Murha Preticent Sandgran s Munha, Ine. Maxwet Roban R. M. Pauley R:bb Partner Stroorkk & Strosck a Lavan David L Davies, Erecutire Vite Presidant Javits a Javits Genoral Counset
American Health
July 7, 1970
G. F. Todd, Esq. Tobacco Research Council Glen House, Stag Place London, S.w.1 England
Dear Mr. Todd:
In recent talks with Dr. Carl G. Baker, Director of the National Cancer Institute, the desirability of forming an international study group concerned with research into tobacco and health problems behalf of your organization to participate in this The proceedings will aim at providing the relativelv few active investigators in tobacco and health research programs with an opportunity to discuss freely current and future research prograns with the intent of reaching common objectives more quickly. The dnoz5 will be composed of investigators primarily invoived in tobacco and health research oriented towards producing less harmful smoking products. The partici- pants must be both willing and able to share with other investigators what is being learned from theix current activities and openly discuss plans for future research in the field. It is thought that by bringing such a group of experts together to review ongoing studies and to plan future investigations jointly less harmful tobacco products will be available sooner and costly research projects will not be duplicated unneces- sarily. The meetings would be held at yearlv intervals with the different organizations acting as host.
letter
invite on you
was discussed. This
is to
information and study group.
- - b
