HK82228112 LANTA RAR : . 2 1
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
:
14 I N
tA 1 2 -u E a IEPAKIME 7 : sRNV January 3, 1977 Dr. Willias H. fishman La Jolla Cancer Research Tourdation 715 Muir Lands Visto Hay La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. fishwan: and Salk.
n 5 - HMAA 7
a
We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of the La Jolia resch rch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla Cancer Resezrch Founr ation and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establisnrent of - focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmenta prublems is particularly irely. It will be 0! o-at potential importance for pulling togetter work by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, characteriztaion and doternination of the sienificance of hurian oncodevelopental antigens such as alphafetuprotein and Carcintebiyonic entioens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship of increased serura concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinogen exposure in humans. Our studies on rats and nouse model systers clearly derion- strate tne t anirals pasodxo to hejatocarcinouens have clevated serum AFP concen- trations prier to developant of slionant Lumers. It is hoped that systeratic study of husan sera frum differest sources will deterwing if serurs AFF concun- In addition. the role of env runsental factors such as hormonal influences on the production of oncodevelopacautal gene brrkt can be further explored in different sy: tems. Such data iwplies that the brod:u tion of cizocsvelopmental gene products by tunor cells is net a fixed property of a aiven tumor but is He look fonrard to vorking with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the importunt subjert of oncodeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoses exposure.
subject to environmental controls.
expression. Best regards. Stewart Sr11, M.D. Professor SS/nb
