s/u/re
MHT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira Nre Yak Times Servier
wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarctie promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars - made cigarettes last year, ringing became an issue even in recent pack (982S) compared with 22
TAIPEI The Marlboro cow- up salcs of 611S milbon. la 9861 trade talks between the United New Taiwan dollan (79 cents)for boy in his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- States and Taiwan. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits o0 cigarette advertiy sown. His picture adoms kiocks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affeirs, registered . ing is Japan are more liberal Com- guitar-playing jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted give out golo free cigarettes and gifts, an aggressive campaign Television This frenetic, fast-growing na cigaretie exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawed in the United States in 1971. tion of nearly 20 million people ly because both Taiwan and Japan school students - 12, i3 years oid Cigarette packages sold in Japan umoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-sianding restrictions, are Dow smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry label that, year and for the first time, E According to the Brown & Wu- rette companies promote cigareties roughly transiated, says, "For the rubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? It's O.K. to have them sake of health, don't smoke too made ia America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" warning much milder To introduce their unfamiliar Asin rose 76 percent last year. re joy $16 billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in si UOTIg in new sales the. United States. But those people mandated in the United States. Wacturens have essentiall intro In. Japan, which has . population are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe companiea say Amencan
and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong prolest,
panies can advertise on TY after
Ou1 this city, next to posters 2 . peroent. a of Winston cigarettes.
OyL. amusemen places to 5:50 P.M. and are now conducting
for most of the growth s American be said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-
of 120 million and where people
duced cigaretie advertising to the tbe American companies of entic ing teen-agers 01 uake da molang. . charge the American companies operation that had monopolized percent by 1992. the cigarette market bad not adver- tised, altbough il does now, The government agreed to allow .presmure from Washingion In the alcohol. year since stiff restrictions o0 for. # cigarettes were dropped. have soared, generating much- wacturens M - time when sales in tbe Unilad States are down and tbe number of anti-amoking laws is way 'dn
"uru . human being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan
island, and tbat has created furor, smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year that. Oovernment officials bave accused imports have more than tripled E
nos o much because of the adver- tising a because they are of better quality and taste beiter. American with the way ure cigaretier are made of blended to- and bacco and have less tar than Tai-
the past year. The market share & American cigarette manufactur- la American cigarettes increased 5 6 vigorously deny there any- more than perceot last year, thing wrong they from 3 percent in 1986, and the promoting their products say Department of Agriculture pro - thry have no plans to change their wincse cigarettos, Tbey are not allowed to advertise television newpapers Nor Taiwan officials say tbey resent oe or ia American pressure to open their have they pusbed todo 1o, they say. markets o producta that éndanger Tbey can advertise only through 5 small stores where cigareties are sold, as well a sales "This really buns our feelings, through promo said Jaw Shau-kong a tions. Cigarette manulacturen may rines, dl whosc groulation acl- cach expont to Tawan? Younger dom exocods 200,000. and femaies are 1 lot Before last forcign ciga- smoking year, E yount attractive cent o tbe market. Taiwan im po-ma4-6! girla immoral. A rerult, imported aigarctie cost
to
which ate not
botly deay.
The BOrersmec-adminisesd dicts that it could grow to SI to 20 salcs pitch.
bleadod.
otbers into tbe business oaly under people's health. like cigarettes and posiens hung near cigarette racks or A American cigarettes in Taiwan ".. tbe United Sustes docs legisiator. not en- also place 120 ade . year in maga-
peadod growth for American man- courage its people to smoke, why
way
causc of American ada. They hire rettos accounted for leas than per wearing short skirts o give  cig- posed strict quotas on forcign and then it becomos a habit. It'i cigaretter and imposed stin tariffs.
According to the U.S. Depart- arettes free in nightclube k's a cigarettes, banned imports at the aet ol Agricukture, people in Tai- difficult for young boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed to sell
0/4/9000SZ
. -
