LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday March 20, 1977
ALOOKTAFTESTS
To judge 67 the torrent of protést - a FDA has received. a sizable por- tion af the calorie-counting public Elusve as a logie a # law may agrees. Long accustomed to a cross seemto the general public, medical firg A criticism from industry pu relearchers say. that the animal 3 consumer activists, the FDA has been périments upon-which such regulato- besteged by, citizen demands liber- decisions are based do have a sen ate saccharin. And moves areafoot 7 sibler rationale pa that they do Cangress a amecd the Food and tave -direct-bearing on risk 9 hu-. Drug AcLey se a 1 i mans -u There'sbeen a remendous cutery syatr true, reseir acknowiedge; a from allaver the country," B EDA thittherats at thecenter cf this iur- EFT spokesmin ia Washington said: A 8 consumed each day the saccharin Times s lence weeter ranges from anguish to anger.: We've. 1 - at reugbly "1.CCO cans of "naver been this busy." a t equiralent sort drinic But they-con- B ban lowicalorie ces it maie l 2 popula The FDA: for-its part: says it was it misieading-if not dichonest food adative an he strength of what 'only doing what the Jaw required. sider to suggest as the calorie couneil has: happens when hundred rats and - the law-specifically the Dela- that [ makes the resear # oifsprings eat additive in : clause inserted. in the. disparity H . nay Congress trilevant & humans - huzs doses? pod and Drug Act in 1958 says that: Paople who drink one can a The Calore Contral Couneil, Ine. R po-ficed) additive shail be deemed a saccharin soft oniy drinic run a nat The trade cra Ananta thinies argani- tabe safe  it is found after tests' a 'comparably lower risk of cancer. But E € ai 213 million people, comes trom manufacturers a dietary tion of the food additives:to. the collective population hazard cauld still add for full- - cancer upto severai thousand cases af blad at dallars in thelast few days - Te clause does.not allow E bal- dercancer a - : t de Moreover. scientists note, rat * led the FD. to b inistration for its decision 6 ban evidence R cancer = hum saccharin. I the only nonnutritive- sweetener arently ca the matket Even the a JA is wiling 6 admit there's a basic difference between -. rats and humas L" cne 1 ad in the TEA Street Journal-ohserved. s,11. 1 anocher : mple of the arbitrar mtire of big E 7emment 5
The.Ban.on Sacchann:
9
satian. whose $ 0,000 annual budgatia wiich are appropriate forthe evaiua- food and drinic has spent thousandss Hduce satetyar E uEM ar animat - a age newspaper ads across the coun- # ancing of ns ad becerit. Nar daes it berating th: Food and Drug Ad- /: rectire- the: ban ta be: based Cu
-
7035437
0087432
TIMN
