NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A to woo Dade campaign County teenagers away from smoking ls under way bere as part of a nation-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groups, the society hopes to persuade - large pro- portion of the nation's young people that amoking may lead Key urapan in the - palgn, le nina strip detalling à ase against tobacen, It has already I sbows te 5 enth graders in 13 achools as educattenal telesinion, and wIl 1 brnadeast to minih grada arience students ta the The se enth-grade program, directed b teacher Bill Evans, included a panel discuasion s which students directed ques- tions at Dr. Francia N. Cooke, representing the society. * Trachers I have talked to agree that although amoking le not - serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu- dents are approaching the age when the problem will be faced," Erine said. 1 value a the nimstrips E 1 gives studenta logleal argument with whleh ithey eonld I ta : 1 - when enrouraged by th ie etrele et frienda, he sdded The fum atrip ln also being shown : to senior a achools in the counly.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October 9, 1960
Education
Cuts Fag
Youth Habits
-
Ameriean cigaret apeking can be reduced * per cent through teenage education program de a high schools. These statistics were presenled Saturday s Walter G. James, director of publie education for the Ameriean Cancer Society, here for the Florida Division, ACS, annual meeting I said a I  program : direeted at leenegers at a I fer "eurbing esncer beesmne e the soclety's eavjetion that soking l I o fatal lang a proepects of reducing cigaret mmoking by one-fifth were jboan s - pilol program conducted with 22.000 high achool aludenta et Puartland, Ore., 1 ae a Sbidents I parents 1 ene I kely a 1 Smoking incressed is the succesaive $ school grades. Among boye Jpyipaad is the Oregon murvey, 143 pes cent smoked as freshmen. 12 per cent as sopbamores, 31.1 per eent as juniars, a 35.4 a I à correspond- Ju figures for girl stodenta were 46 per A 10.6 per cent, 1 or the studrnts. 258 per eent o the boys smoknd regularty at least enre 1 a a 116 per cant et the girte 4 Education programs againat smoking reduced the number of ne amokers I boys from 1 per cent to 7.7 & cent, and beginning airl moters from 14 le 1t PROGRAM EFFECTIVE I enid Che figures projected erer - four-year peried indicaled that R per eent P high school etudents could be delerred from Surot through the ACS educational progrem a sudy, la L revealed that the most effective approach was in showing the long term efect 1 rmoting, leaving the decision a a I * C Least ellective, he related - F simple instruction not le i 2 part ef ib anti-emaking eduration I a ACS a devised a Ain strip Muntrating electa A de habit for screming la 1 achool claserooine. -
to cancer.
at the Lagu. Mar Hotel cancet. doaur
à
apring.
-me à digaret habrt
a per cent and * per cent
per cent
:. E
MITUN
00/0032686
