£ Epidemial Vol 47, No. 10 2 1145-1142 194 Copyright o 1994 Devie Science La Prinsed is Great Beitain AR rights mcned 0895-4356/94 $7.00 +000
Pergamon
0895-635603400061-4
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN SMOKERS, EX-SMOKERS, PASSIVE SMOKERS AND NON-SMOKERS ALISON THORNTON, PETER LEE* and JOIN FRY P. N. 3 Statistion and Computing Ltd, 17 Cedar Road, Sutton, Surrey SM2 SDA, England (Receied le reotued form & Marck 1994) Abstract The extent to which current, ex- and passive smoking are associated with other risk factors, and the potential for confounding arising from these associations, was studied using a representative sample of 9003 British adults, The distribution of 11 lifestyle factors generally considered associated with adverse health were compared in current smokers, ex-smokers, never smokers living with - smoker ("passive smokers") and other never smokers. or the 33 risk factors 27 showed a significandly higher prevalence in heavy smokers than in never smokers and only two showed a lower prevalence. For many dsk factors, prevalence increased with amount smoked, docreased with time of smoking cessation and was increased is passive smokers. The possible magnitude of bas from confounding by the risk factors is estimated. It is concluded that confounding a multiple risk factors may be an important issue in smoking studies where weak associations are observed. This applies particularly to studies investigating the possible association of passive smoking with various health effocts. Smoking Passive smoking Confounding Bias
INTRODUCTION
gists normally do attempt to take account of
Numerous epidemiological studies have investi- such differences where relevant to the endpoint gated the relationship of current smoking, past studied and thus 5 to minimize bias due to smoking and exposure to environmental confounding. Differences betwoen non-smokers tobacco smoke ("passive smoking") to mor- exposed and not exposed to environmental tality and morbidity from a variety of diseases tobacco smoke are less well studied. though (IJ Because smokers and passive smokers are recent reports [4,5] have pointed to a possible not a random selection of the population, such confounding of the lung cancer relationship by theoretical possibility that observed differences A study of the literature over many years by between the groups studied may arise, at least in one of us (PL) has led to a number of pro- part, due 2 differences in exposure from other visional conclusions being reached. Firstly, risk factors and not wholly to effocts of smoking smokers tend to have unhealthier lifestyles than or of environmental tobacco smoke exposure. non-smokers in a number of respocts, so that Many differences between smokers and non- they would be expected to have higher rates of smokers, such as in alcohol consumption [2]and many diseases even in the absence of any effect social class [3). are well known and epidemiolo- of smoking. Secondly, for many of these lifestyle
studies have always to take into account the dict.
0% 47 2 b 21
factors passive smokers ard also somewhat worse off than non-smokers unexposed to
Aurhor for correxpondence
1143
