-
SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H. complaints associaied with the sick building syndrome
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire The symptoms were more common a build-
In a cross-sectional invesnganion in one building, office buildings built over the last OS years with a validased were measured S e linear analog scale questionnaire. su where the ventilation system abso provided cooling and Ar the same ame, the micro-environmen (environmental humidification. irrespective of the age of the buildings. A characteristics in the breathing zone # chan area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air samples) - characierized by measuring temperenure, quality parametens was not described. Skov et a (1987) en- relarive hamidiry, respirable suspended particulases, car amined indoor air quality symptoms ie 14 modern I bon dioxide, noise level, lighzing inuensiry, releche ka tom halls and 14 older control buildings. A I of rymp midiry, and airfow. No relarionship a seen behween toms was related 01 "Beecing" factor (carpets, upholery. the degree of symptoms and age, educarion, or durasion and horizontal surfaces) sad the "macro-moleculer compo of employment e the building or time spent in the build- nent" of dust. They also demonstrated - relationship between Sh on a daily basis. Suaristically, complainas wre the oumber of hours spent photocopying and uing carbonless significanty more frequent amont smoking men. Envi- copy paper and the leve! of complaints. Other srudies have ronmental characteristics associaled 1 the incresaed demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et a 1985) complaint levels in chis group included decreesed airfow and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) cootribute models, chere a an association benveen respirable a- cause of complaint le the sick building syndrome s I pended particulases and the levels of boch mMCOLLE mom suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et brane and ryssemic complaints. Sarisfaction wiah dhe al. (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif- thermal environment as predicted by percepcion of 1 ferences le the concentrations of eevironmental pollutants R not clearty contribute a che degree of symptoms, berween rooms ie a mechanically and a naturally ventileted alshough regression models E I dhar complaings building. They studied the rooms with the # comp were not independent ef cheral paramesers. Lighang rates and used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did I insensiry a also associeted 1 complaints. I strate . relationship between symptoms and both ares - mudies of che # building syndrome should examine ples measuring dust and . "macro-molecular" fraction. agnin
a
velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended £ to indoor air quality complaints
diculaser 1 dry-bulb sempereture. In regression
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
mulriple exposcres simulsaneoualy and include prycho- in area samples. L measucres a identify predictors of complaints in
Area samples is buildings may not y representative of the exposures la different points in single rooms. Physical characteristics soch a windows and partitions, computers, and sbelving may intuence air currents. Radiant heat may different exposure characteristics than tbe macro-enviroe-
indoor I INTRODCTION
Complaints termed the * building syndrome" have lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, moet i led to numerous investigations in the last 15 years. They are hutants resuk from point sources, os they will be diluted a thought to occur primarily ie newty constructed ollice [ subject la fartber removed from the soarce. A micro # inps and, at least in the past, were thought to be due to viroement around desks and within cubicles may have very wide variety of causes have been identibed le specifke settings, ment of building. la addition, all applied occupational and inchuding inadequate temperature and relative bumidity 8 environmental bealth research that attempts to relate dose to trol, noise, lighting. vibration. volatile organic compounde heakh effects # from the problem that I la penerally and formaldehyde. microorpanisms, environmental tobecco measured e several points in time and then extrapolated to smoke, pesticides, 1 entrainment of vehicle exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications -r decades spent and cootaminated air and boiler I Abers released # most heakth effects are messured as . I resak of from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronie exposures Where the variability of sampling A proup of investigatons from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom et al. 1984) sugpested that these complaints -re related pri- day to day but from hour to bour, such a stratepy most fail (Robertson et al. 1985) was unable to identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the micro- wet-bulb globe temperature, dry-bulb temperature (temper- environment and set these characteristics in relation o a ature), relative humidity. air velocity, formaldehyde, or pos level of individual complaints at . given point in I This itive or nepative ons between several rooms in - building report presents results of crom-sectional investigation of with natural and a building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using . sel-edministered. linear analog. where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-amesment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom E I . Amasnt Prolesor of Medicine ad el Industrial and Enviroomental Heahh Sciences at the Univeruty of Pxmsburgh Schools of Medicine and Public Heahh. P. Cellegy a Direcor, Environmental Heahh and Salery, Carepie-Mellon Universty. Pirtsburgh FA
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem,
(Kreiss and Hodgson 1984; Hodgson and Kreiss 1986). marily o1 mechanical ventilation. à I proup of authors
results la greater than the difference ia average samples, and No investigations in à peer-reviewed literature have
3691
