PKJ ANE

Carcinagenesls vul 15 nu 11 rp2731-2735. 1OGI

Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke
carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosaminn-1-G-pyridyl)-1-butandne and
benzolajpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of

C3420

chemopreventive agents

Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin
Amencan Health Foundation. Valhalta NY 10595. USA

models examined to date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class
of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco
smoke (1). We have chosen the A/I mouse because previous

The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce
model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas ane induced
lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction is A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression 01
by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-py I)-1-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined
and benzolelpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated
individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg
were treated by either intragastric adcard (i-g-) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of
intraperitonenl injection (i.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis A4 NNK, BaP,
and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and 7.12-dimethylbenzfalanthracene (9,10).
either 9 or 12 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse 1O evaluate the effects of
forestomach were counted. The i.g. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung lumor induction by NNK
proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4,11,12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse ear be replicated
because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate
the Injectionsite and associated mortality. A dose response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung tumnor induction by
relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/l mouse and F344 rai (11,13)
mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single
treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens This may not he realistic with respect 01 tobacco
of 24 umol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (I). The
have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important
Comparisons of NNK and BaP given individuatly showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (12
when given by the i.g. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either
wcre complicated by local tumor formation and mortalits. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP
The most favorahle dosing reginien of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to
evaluation of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate parually the multiple dosing which oceurs during
dose of 24 umol of cach, administered in cight weekly smoking. in addition. the mode! should he relatively rapid and
subdoses ig, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive Therefore. we exomined tumor yields obtained
dosing This regimen induced 10.5:4.4 lung adenomas upon trentment with NNK nnd BaP. given simultaneously for
mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen. & weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61
ethyfisothiocyanate given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a
and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC
tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP
thls study provlde a convenlent model for assessing the NNX was synthesized in the Americas Heate Foundation Organic Synthesis
efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. Its purity was establihed 44 HPLC as >997. BaP (93 purity),
Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were
could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirs containing Sa cor oil d previously 2
play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups of 15 as sammarized in Table L At ase 7 weeks each mouse was
kers: swoumrg-1-GAPMirmoswresomupeipena)-p (NNK' treated by intraperitoncal (ip) injection or by intragastrie gavage E wid
and benzolalpyrene (BaP) € NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical le 0.I ml cononsced oil. NNK and BaP were both
carcinogen with organospeeificity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in the o. E uned for treatment Injections and gavages were carried a
*Abbreslations: NNK. simalyleioemeht0-ondabibees inditunt dese wat cne -eighch of the total. Equimolar doses of NNK and
aoP, benzolelpyrene: PEITC, phencihyl inothiocyanale: BnC, benzyl BaP were wsed in most of the combination growps, hecause the amounts of

which these on) tobacco smoke carcinogens were given

The A/J mouse lung tumor mode! has been used extensively

of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the
that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK

Most previous studies in the A/ mouse have examined
We sought to develop a model which could be used 01

5.92 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely
inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.

inbiblting forestomach sumor development. The results of Materials and methods

BITC 1989 purity) and PEITC (936 purity) were abtained from the Aldrich
Chemical Cempany (Malwaukee, Wti Cottonseed oll wat purchased froe
Female AJJ mict. age > werka were obtoined fom The Jackson Laboratory
(Bar Harbor, ME), They were housed under standard conditions in the
The design of the bioassay i illustrated la Figure 1 A mice were divided
out foe & coasecutive werks. The total doses ae given in Tuble L Each
NNK and sotal carcinopenie polycyelie hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke are

Sigma Chemical Co (SA Louis, MO).

Introduction
to

agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).

isothiocyanait, P intriperitoncal, - introgastric gavage.

o Oxford Univensity Press

2721