WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRIBUNE
D. 25,605
S. 49,326
WACO WSTOPOLITAN AREA
MAR S 1963

FC Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard- Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission from going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it
does not scem right or logical that one medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer W hile
newspapers, magazines, billboards and cou ntc T
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expected to review the FCC proposal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC said it is proposirg to refuse licenses
03 broadcasters who carry cigarette advertisics
because of ovidence that smoking is injuriour to hcalth
and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public
intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals to do
as they please so long as thcy don't harm another.
It also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that i: you don't mention something. maybe it won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democret, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com-
merce Com.mitice, said in reference to the proposed
FCC rule that the ngency had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has
any right 01 tell an advertiser what he could not
say in his advertisements, Rogers said Congress will
take a close Icok at the whole question of repulations
on televisinn and radio advortising content, not only
as to the Federal Coamumicatins Commission but
in regard to Fcderal Trade Commnission praclices as
The stakes involved extend beyond the business
of broadcasling. They go to the heart of whether
government burcaus Pinoys he allowed to go beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Health"

hurt you and will disappear.

57
S822TC0.

well.

tho linits of due procesa and tic law.