FF
Principal ewestigator/Progran Direcior (Last, first, middle).
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH POSITION TITLE
Give the lollowing information for the key personnel and consullants and collaborators. Begin with the principal
Investigator/progrart director. Photocopy this page lor each person.
NAME
Constance Smith
Postdoctoral Fellow
EDUCATION (Begin with baccataureate or other initial prolessional education. such as nursing. and include postdoctoral training.)
YEAR CONFERRED 1986 1994
INSTITUTION AND LOCATION Wesleyan University, Middletown, CT University of California, Berkeley, CA Emory University School of Medicine
DEGREE B.A. Ph.D.
FIELD OF STUDY Biology Molecular & Cell Biology
Postdoc 1994-present Anatomy & Cell Biology
RESEARCH AND PRIOFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Concluding with present position, list, is chronological order, previous employment. experience, and honors. Key personnel include the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the project. Key personnel typically wll include all individuats wilh doctoral or other profassional degrees, but in some projects wil include individuals at the masters or baccalaureate level provided they contribute in a substantive way e the scientific development or execution of the project. Include present membership on any Federal Government public advisory committee List, inchronological order, the titles, all authors, and complete references to all publications during the past three years and to representative earlier publications pertinent to this application If tho list ol publications in the last three years excoeds two pages,
select the most pertinent publications DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES. RESEARCHPROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
- 11/86 12/87 01/88 07/88 08/88 06/94 - 07/94 08/94 09/94 present HONORS 1993 1994 1995-1996 PUBLICATIONS Papers
Research Assistant, Anatomy & Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. Participated in biochemical purification of tropomodulin in the lab ofVelia M Fowler. Research Assistant, Molecular Biology, Research Institute of Scripps Clinic, LaJolla, CA. Assisted in polyclonal antibody production and purification in the lab ofVelia M. Fowler. Doctoral Candidate in the laboratory of Dr. David A. Weisblat Molecular and Cell Postdoctoral fellow, in the laboratory ofDr. Shirley H Bissen, Dept. ofBiology, Postdoctoral fellow in the laboratory of Dr. Marla B. Luskin, Dept, of Anatomy and Cell
Biology, Univ. ofCalifornia, Berkeley. University ofMissouri, St. Louis, MO.
Biology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA
Best poster award, West Coast Regional Developmental Biology Conference Invited speaker for minisymposium, Society for Developmental Biology meeting National Research Service Award, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke
Smith, C.M. and Weisblat, D.A. (1994) Micromere fate maps in leech embryos: lineage specific differences in Smith, C.M., Lans, D. and Weisblat, D.A. An investigation of cellular mechanisms of epiboly in leech embryos Bissen, S.T. and Smith, C.M. mRNA synthesis IS required for asymmetric cell division during a critical period of Fowler, V.M. and Smith, C.M. (1988). Inhibition of tropomyosin binding to F-actin by tropomodulin, a new tropomyosin-binding protein from the human erythrocyte membrane. - Cell Biol 107: 68LA
rates of cell proliferation. Development 120:3427-3438
(Submitted to Development)
early leech development (In preparation).
Abstracts
PHS 398 (Rev. 9/91)
(Form Page (9 Page 50650464
FF
Numbor pages corsocutwely at the bone a thoughout the applicatien De nor wse surtixas such às 3a. A
