458
Peptide Hormones. Growth Factors. and Soma H (ed): Placenta Basie Research for Clinical Applcanon. Int. Conf. on Placenta. Tokyo, '0661 Basel. Karger, "1661 pP 105-114 Isolation of a Xenobiotic Metabolizing Cytochrome P-450 (P-450s0k) with No Aromatase Activity from Placental Microsomes of Both Cigarette-Smoking and Yoshio Osawa, Tadayoshi Higashiyama. Kenji Shimizu'. Endocrine Biochemistry Deparment, Medical Foundauon of Buffalo Rescarch Insutute. Buffalo. N.Y., USA
Placental Proteins
Nonsmoking Mothers Nobutaka Yoshida'
COPY
FILE
The presence of different monooxygenase activities has been docu- mented in buman placental microsomes. The predominating cytochrome P- 450, that of androgen aromatase, catalyzes the biosynthesis of estrogens (1). Aromatase P.450 has been the object of numerous studies to determine its mechanism of action and to purify it [2, 3). Gough et al. [4) reported the presence of another enzyme system which catalyzes the hydroxylation of xenobiotic substances. It has also been reported that a placental cytochrome P-450 ie responsible for the hydroxylation of benzo(alpyrene via aryl hydro- carbon hydroxylase lL-sl The low content of the responding cytochrome P. 450 in human placenta and instability during purification have made it difcul to isolate any other active P-450 enzyme. As a side benefit gained from our procedure to purify and characterize catalytically active aromatase P-450 tel we found a fraction from the immunoafinity chromatography which showed a high level of xenobiotic activity with little contaminating aromatase activity. Through the use ofconventional purification procedures, we obtained a xenobiotically active P-450 with no aromatase activity. Previous studies on aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity have demon- strated higher levels of this activity in smokers but not in nonsmokers '8l 16 Postdoctoral Research Fellows OD leave from the Deparment of Obateincs and
Gynecology. Okayama University Medical Scnool. Okayams. Japan.
PUBLICATIONS
028242
