True-Talse Questions on the Chenistry and Prychophyslology. of Odor and Flevor e H Sone nodern workers suggost that nccurate mensurenent of vibratlonal frequency (in the for infrared, for exanple) of uw unknown odorant will permit prediction of its quallty nnd intensity. T No elenental substance, not even halides or ozone hos eny odori Instead they react with the nucose forning new products whlch ore sme Iled; I T J Sone odorants have steric or vibrational propertles which force the cone luslon : they are odor less when they are not I1. - Present evidence strongly suggests that different parts of the ollactory receptor ares, IIke tho retina tn the eye. are qua ity-spocific, T Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (1iquid system) nor the receptor A No one yet has a r clue as to the criticol relation between the molecule nnd the receptor which permits en odor perception. T The greoter tie secretion rate of evcous or sellve, the a gher their 'ued and both Hd end tomperature influence the quallty of sensation in the 11. T The ideal instrumentel detector would respond to odors in the sane quantitetive range as doan an S 1 or human sub ject. T . Such en Ideat detector hes not heen developed. kenn observors with head In fixed position cen Aq virtue of the two indopontent nostrils eesily discern stereo seol effects, .e. they can tell whother as oror on is at the right or left hand, sunh os one uses his two ears in locating the source of a sound. T For certaln ausk- iko compounds, forty molecules ar sufficient to trigger 4 humon olfact ory response. V. - Adaptation o one olfactory unb lity does not signlficantly reduce sensitivity to ony other dissiel lar quallty, but does reduce sensi tivity to at sint Lhr quelities. T By employing a statieritios nethod of compering qualitles, one con now obtain identity nnd degrees of difference without recourse to troble- vi. - Hunger lowers thresholds stight ly to some food qualltios but not for 1 11 le now possible to loentify the Intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull sieply by expert examination of the siectrophysiological record taken from approprlate ofor or taste neurons. T Electrical stinulation of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" end a "metallic" or "alkaling" quality. T . Direct electrica stimuletion of the olfactory senso has successfully eccompllshed. VII. T . Although total anosala is rore lo humans and ageus ie even rarer, there is evidence that in analogy to color vision deflciences, some people are Insensitive to (only certein) oualities while having noreal sensitivity to others. T Toplcal anesthetlcs applled to the tongue shoe that di fferent qualities 1 Certain endocrine disense entitles make = possible for pose people quite sensitively to "snell" such "odor less" substances 0s sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to noreal by manipulation of endocrine levels. T e onenopause wonon at the tIme of ovulation fInd certaln odors extrenely disegreeable whllo at other tiaos In the menstrun cycle these sese odors
sone elenents possess taste.
surface In order to be sme led.
chenicn! senses.
Iv.
sone mor ds. others.
ye beon
50
of taste disappear at different rates.
they  Judge quite pleasant.
