LOS ANGELES TIES
Los Angeles, Californin
October 20, 1954
n been proved,
ale
Iniversity

hairil uudn the premise that hination n a particular tvpe
nanection hetw een riea in each of : aree categnries
re smokingand disease ha: has alrcadv produred a sale
Might Take Six Months one it is. so all can be made
Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. If not, the rerearch
who was in charge of the most Dr. Carence Cook Littie,
complete statistical study to chairman of the sciertific ad-
date, said tbat "some AES we vianrv board and scient'fic di
should wait for more defini rector of the Toiarro Indus-
ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves woulr
nne has said just what the de. produre some of "the defni
finitive evidence weud be." tive evidence" in wateh Dr
Hie sand he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In nse ak in the Ameriran "We wiil tackle eimultan
system was more important, Ine of the industrv's renearch
migh: prove surceasful in RIx do not have todav Ihe
months, with it:ek, he said. menta! evidence that R - per-

cigarette If sO. scientifie re-
search should prove which
should fnd one, "since
ple like to smoke cigarettes.
try Resrarch Committee, de-
seribed the outlines nf siud-
Tackle I'nknawns

Expert Calls
Safe
Cigarettes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming

for

atatistician

-oad

tive evidence before develop

NEW YORK. Ort. 19 (LP) thie viewnoint,

The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. De eously manv of the unknowns
arette smoking with b ot h Hammond xaid the relation- in this feld of tobaccn u1xe in
lung cancer and heurt dis- ship nf rigare:te smoking to relation to buman health. te
ease is "overw helming" and the heart and the vascular said in announcing the out-
something should be done at from the standpoint ot public program. "We seek definitive
onee about developing "a safe health, than the relationshin findings in ue area where
cigarette à a leading statisti- to lung cancer. 1 program to much suggestive work has
cal scientist told the annual find E. safe cigarette" from heen done. The program nf
meeting cf the American the viewpoint ef the heart the bnard recngnizes tha: w e
tife advisory board of the There are various types nf gardinz the caure and cfers
Tobacco Industry Research tobacen, there are varinus relationshin hetween ey romn.
Committen anaounced some of types of fiters, and there are mental factors. includ n -
the details nf EEK srieatifie re varioux terhn'ques n! curing The mosr important
srarch program 1 hich is tobarcn, he Raid. and e may set up waa a diree: scudy nrnceet n

Cancer

experi

Society today.
At the xame time the scien-

Outlines Described

mit scientifie eonclesions PA.
snoking and lune cancer
lung cancer rase: a
10 medical centers 17 Te : n 1
ed States and Canada,

he that some fortustonis com- current
LOG ANGELES EYAVINES
Los Ange les, California
October 20, 1954

It will include numerous
studies of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers,
se well as tests on animals
Only the main broad aspeets
of the research were disclosed
today. à specitio research
grants, financed the
will be announced later.

HEALTH STUDY
NO

TOBACCO
NEW YORK. Oct. 19- *
< bread abc point study seek
ing knowledge whether eigareta
or other forms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health har.
ards was announced today.
It is the first announcement
of big research prokram
headed by the sclentifie ad.
visory board of the Tobacco In.
dustry Research Committer

E TIRC,

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062