Genetic Epidemiology 5:265-275 (1988)

Estimating Genetic Parameters of Survival
Distributions: A Multifactorial Model

Joanne M. Meyer and Lindon J. Eaves

Department of Human Genetics, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond
For a number of genetically influenced illnesses, age of onset is correlated between
relatives. is some cases, age of onser also serves as an index of an individual's
inheritedi liabiliry o an illness. Typically, survival models for age of onset distri-
butions do not allow for these effects. We have used the gamma distribution as the
basis of - model which specifies genetic variabiliry in age of onset. Specifically,
we allow the hazard frequency parameser of the samma distribution 10 by a
monotonic function of an individual inherited liabiliry io an illness. Simulations
under various gamuma models indicate that age of onset correlations may be
strikingly different from correlations in liability. Maximum likelihood estimation
procedures were used to obtain parameter estimates from simulated data sets and
to determine whether it ia possible to discriminate between gamma processes of
different order. The results for 1,000 pairs of twins (500 monozygotic and 500
dirygotic) gave parameter estimates that were fairly accurate but that decreased is
precision as the order of the gamma process increased. We discuss the effect this
may have on inferences made about age of onset.
Key words: age of onset correlations, survival models, gamma distributien

INTRODUCTION

Genetic analyses of illnesses and behaviors showing a variable age of onset
require a knowledge of the cumulative probability of onset by given ages. Some
approachés [Weinberg. 1915; Stromgren, 1938; Risch, 1983] derive this probability
from prior age of onset distributions. Others (Elston, 1973; Heimbuch et al., 1980;
Risch, 1983) estimate parameters of a cumulative age of onset distribution from the
data. When the data allow ts use, the latter method de more appealing since
Received for publication January 11, 1988; revision accepied April 22, 1988.

specific

Address reprint request 10 Joanne Meyer, Department of Human Geneties, Bes 33 Medieal College of

Virginia, Richmond, VA 23298.
1988 Alan R. Liss, Inc.