PKJ

Carcinogenesh vul 11 m 13 rp2721-2725, 1924
carcinogens DURUESOABTURGOURD-P
chemopreventive agents

Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke
benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of

pyridyD-1-butandne and

C342

Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin
Amenean Fleakh Foundation, Valhalla NY 10595, USA

models examined 9 date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class
of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco
smoke (I). We have chosen the A/J mouse hecause previous

The purpose of this study sem to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce
model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced
lung cancer in smokers, Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression 01
by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined
and benzo@lpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated.
individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice CI evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenbere
were treated by either intragastric adcara (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of
intraperitoneal injection (i.p.) with various doses of NNK different compound: against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP,
and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and7.12-dimethylbenzlalanthracend (9,10).
either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the AJJ mouse ol evaluate the effects of
forestomach were counted. The ig route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK
proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4.11,12). Results obtained with the A/ mouse can be replicated
because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems. For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate
the Injection site and associated mortality A dose response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung turnor induction by
relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/1 mouse and F344 rat (11,13)
mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single
treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not he realistic with respect 01 tobacco
of 24 umol of each) induced more lung turne ors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The
have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for - study, NNK and BaP are important
Comparisons of NNK and RaP given individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (
when given 4 the ig route: i.p. administrations of BaP ossess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either
were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality, before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP
The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to
evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appcars to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during
dose of 24 umol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and
subdoses ig., with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we exnmined tumor yields obtained
dosing. This reginen induced 10.5+4.4 lung adenomas uodn treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for
mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 19
ethylisothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1) This tumor model was employed in a
and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC
tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP
thls study provlde a convenient model for assessing the NNK pras synthesized in the American Heatth Foundation Organic Synthesis
efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility lts purity was establithed by HPLC as >997 BaP (98% purity).
Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4) They were
could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintainal on AIN-7M dirs containing sa uxs oil. as previously
to play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups ef 15 as sammarized in Tahte 1 At ase 7 weeks esch mouse wa
kers: 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1 -(3-pyridyl)- I-butanone (NNK*) treated by imraperitoneal (ip) injection or by intragastric gavage (ig) with
and benzolajpyrenc (BaP) (1) NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical is 01 ml cononseed oil NNK und BaP were both
carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in the o. ml uned for treatment Injections and gavages were carried
*Abbrevlations: NNK, 4-(methy osamino)- 1-(3-pydayb-1 -butunone individuat dese was cee -eighth of the motal Equimolar dour of NNK and a
BaP benzol-lpyrene: PEITC, phencihy isothiocyanalc: BITC, benzyl BaP were uned in most of the combination groups, because the arenunts of

whlch these 0153 tobacco smoke carcinogens were given

The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively

of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the

Most previous studies in the A/ mouse have examined
We sought to develop a model which could be used to

that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK

5.9= 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (F A 0.001) and completely
inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.

inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods

BITC (985 purity) and PEITC (93% (Aund were ebtained from the Aldrich
Chemical Cempany (Milwaukee. WI Cottonseed oll was purchased fromen
Female AJI mice. age weeka were obtained funs The Jackson Laborsnory
(Rar Harbor, ME They were housed under standard conditions in the
The desiga of the bioassay is illustrated . Figure L. A mice were divider
out for 8 consecurive wecks. The total doses are given in Table L Each 16
NNK and total carcinogenic polyeyelic hydrocarbons in tobaceo smoke are

Sigma Chemical Co (St Louis, MO).

Introduction

agents against two of the carcinogen: in tobacco smoke thought described (4).

isothiocyansie, P intriperitoncal, ig. intraganarie gavage.

o Oxford Unvenity Press

2721