09K80

RAP

: acu 4

Relative Hepatotoxicity of Some Industrial Solvents after
Intraperitoneal Injection or Inhalation Exposure in Rats
INOVAR LUNDBERG, MARIANNE EKDAHL, TONY KRONEVI, VITAUTS LIDUMS,
Rearatrh Depurtmet, National Rail of Overeen Sadery und New - sm 84 Suden. Surden
Intruperitoncal LD, (leihal dox 39A ha values - animal liver leaie dunsa in 1
Sprague-Dewley nuls - deumina lue ihe 1 dun utvents loluene 1
in L - a hluroethane inchlore
eshykene. Chanol meihyl ciby and and and Fur the hang - LC, I
. a a dere 3 urkes Huses chloro
form, fate chluroeshylene 2 dmethylformam UNHI The Kry ashly of the a
- worbitel dehydrugenum (SDHX wa und . - und la L Reus damage Carbue taire
chiorik chlorufurm and DMF KPaletess lus dans cumpared la S values
10 a and X I Charufirm and DMP
a à - mhulation pour
$ value appruumerciy VR und Jag i Even relatively
1 done d the A sete 4 not HINE the SLIES civily Signifkant direct (metabo
i nediated hepelotonichy anse lu be a - common leatur amans commonly uned
The hepatoloxicily of some industrial sulvenis. especially carbon tetrachloride
and chloroform han been extensively studied lata concerning liver loxicity can
be found uho for marfy other solvents Huwever, the liver toxicity has in only
few çases been studied relative lo uthe eflests ul the sulvents In occupational
medicine Uhus I of information is of 4 me value as cllecix with ignificance for
the estableshment ul threshold lamul ralur are ut par incular interest
Seven a meihnds ha a been used le Evahuals IUR leves damage in caperimental
animals. delerminator of different in end yme 4 uvue in serum A raised
activity of such enzymes is caused by increaved leakage of the enzymes through
the cell membrane but H is uncertam wheihe this kakage is I in an inevi-
table develupment of cell necro (Zimmerman, 1976) Huwever, the enzyme
analyses provide hettes quantitative Estunaley E the extent of necroxis and are
casier to perform than microscopical Lamunation uf tissue preparations Though
limited necrosis can only be detectre microscopic ally certare enzymes are highly
sensitive for liver cell necrosis Korsrud et A 0972. 1973) have shown that sor-
bitol dchydrogenase (SDH)' is uch an cnayme. In studies where different $
Abbreviations uned DMF dimethylformamide sue sorbite dehydrugenase: ALAT alanine
sminotrunsterast LD, lethal dose XX ka LC iethal cati ration XX E TD, loak doe
$ TC - iosic cun sniratice so% Throughout Uhu I wivse voelse (s) a solvenupcanut 2
misturs rekin lo volume percent. The retume lou une muaturs . neglecied.

AND STINA LUNDBEKO
Received Max 1984

ylene chtride cartun teirachloris : urk
2 minimul hver luais - concen
(TD, Bonic Juse $ - a -pe -
WER hepulotenk - comparatively lus -
(TC, lunic -
uatrial solvents .

INTRODUCTION

411

0015-915UM 51 a
.

2501661843