LOS ANTRIFS TI:ES Los Angeles, Californio October 20, 1054 been proved. lale University
harrl uudn the premise that hination n" a partirular type neet tor hetween riea- in each of : three categories mokine and disease has has alrcady produced a safe Might Take Six Monthe one it is. so all can be made Dr. a Cuyler Hammond thar way. 11 not, the research who was in charge of the most Dr Carence Cook Lit:c. complete statistica! ipms to chairman of the scientific ad- date, said tbat "some say we visnry bnard and scient fic di should wait for more defini rector o: the Toharro Indus- tive evidence before develop- try Research Committee. de. ing a safe cigarette. but no ies which he helieves would one has said just what the de produre some of "the defni finitive evidence weud be." live evidence th inich Dr Hr sand he "took issue" with Hammond referred. In his talk in the Ameriran "We will tarkle simultan system was more important, line of the industry research migh: prove surcessful in six do not have todav the experi months, arith itck." he said menta! evidence that : prr tobarco, he Raid, and it may The most important nroect
cigarette ID so scientific re- scarch should prove which should find one, "since ple like to smoke cigarettes. seribed ibe outlines nf stud- Tackle Unknewns
Expert Calls Safe Cigareffes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming NEW YORK Ort 19 (ILP
for
atatistician
-oad
this viewnoint
The rvidence connecting cig- Cancer Society mreting. Dr eoustv mans of the unknowns arette smoking with hoth Hammond said 1he relation- in this feld of tobaccn use in lung cancer and heart dis. ship nf rigare:te smoking to relation to human health. be case is "overw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. We seek definitive once about developing "a safe health. than the relationship findings in ue area where cigarette." leading statisti- to lung cancer A program to murh suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find "a safe cigarette from heen done. The program nf tific advisory board of the There are varinus types of garding the rause and Ffert Tobacco Industrv Research inhacen, there are varings relationshin hetween ens Frin- Committes anaounced some of types of fiters, and there are mental factors including
the viewpoint of the heart the bnard Outlines Described
tha: we recngnizes mit scientific eonclasions re smokire and lune rancer et up Was diree tudy > current lung cancer rase: a 10 medical centers im:the : n E ed States and Canada,
meeting of the American Cancer Society today. At the same time the scien-
11- details nf itx scientific re- arinn terhn'ques n! euring
srarrh program which is he thar
some fortunons rom- LOS ANGELES EXAMINER los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
It will Inchude numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokers, as well as test on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. # apecifio research grants, financed by the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY ON TOBACCO YORK, Oct. 19 - < broad stx point study seek Ing knowledge whether eigarets or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards was announced today. It la the first announcement of big research proxram headed by the selentifie ad- visory board of the Tobacco In dustry Researeh Committee
NEW
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
