May 16 "96 8:44
P.11
Tribune Chicago
MAY I 6 1996
UST
Philip Morris,
offer plan to curb teen use of tobacco Proposal would prohibit FDA regulation, ban 'loosies' and vending machine salès
By Barbara Sullivaa TRIBUNE STAFF Warss Philip Morris Cos. and UST omp"sur Jo the largest 000E99 counpanies. went on the ouen- sive Wednesday, proposing sweeping legislation to curb teen tobacco use. The proposals, which would include a ban on vending machine and single-cigaretté sales and Impose curbs on advertising. go further than restrictions sought by the Food and Drug Administration, the companies said. The quid pro quo, however, is that the FDA be prohibited from any regulation of tobacco prod- ucts "it there's FDA involvement the deal is not on the table, said Ellen Merio, Philip Morris USA senior vice president of affairs. corporate Merlo also said the proposals news conference Wednesday are not meant as a compromise, or Orst step toward rapproche- pany and UST is the biggest ment, with the government's maker of snuff and chewing mountine push toward regulating tobacco The two companies and restricting tobacco usage. "This sao3 way beyond a com- support from other tobacca promise," Merlo said. "We think companies. said their proposal this is a solution." Merlo said further that the industry fund spent over a five- proposals are so comprehensive that unilateral action by Philip the legislation Morris- and UST would not be Some anti-amoking advocates beneficial "We couldn't implement these posals as nothing more than a actions on our own. without leg- islation." she said. "tr only one the FDA out of the picture. or two companies participated. there would be no impact." Philip Morris. maker of Marl- kids from the blandishments (of among others. is the tobacco industry). and they boro cixarettes the world ' biggest tobacco 41100
3/1
sur 12a
Steve Pamish. a Philip Morris Cos. senior vice president, at a which have not yet received would include a $250 million year period to help implement however. saw the tobacco pro- blatant smoke screen to keep "They cealtze that the FDA is most serious about protecting SE CIGANETTTS. PACE 2
