996
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richurd L. Nacye. MD, and Woodrow S. may var y in incidence and Somersct Counties of
Findings Dollinger, MS the men hnd ever
Coal workers pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one pationt to another. In found to correlate well with quantitative, measurements of a the volume of macules and nodules. recognition of cmphysemo and chronic cor miners with no roentgenographic with silica and collagen.
process but a a study of 77 miners of postmortem anatoinic dioxide)and collagen content of dust évidence of pncumoconiosis had
rank, low-volatile coal In Cambrin and rylvanla Nonc of eentral l'ean- d ucted between 1902 und 19-is ly the Pennaylvanin Inportmeat of Miner 27d Mineral Indurtries rhuwed an silica runtent of cual ant le low in all arenn of Fenneyha . neklom helng greater iban $.. I owerer, the mine durt conerstra t: in of free nilica In greater for sonie a nerground wurkets Puch as nof lo 4 * or encountir Al"calearisy The in cascs pulverin a rand, wlerted 141 tu keuted calagne dks ly huthera, whorisieded rach of ruven plirpose F -neral hospital and real erery AU- 4 protorul lavohe a man + than a Trara of Hgr inn 4h-J parumorminsinsi+ h twern 1960 and I:his The is to determine if paru- fo . casen atarted with the hatch pathir some workers withent arristed Tir a descriptinn the lungr Whrn rtr was any mentlon of ex de ment, parenchy mal nodul . thina or any hlstury of mining. the the nt's clinical chart unt In- etan.in-d, a wrre extuce A as inrluded in the rtudy unly trymatinn esprar cre-t unel in sprein minrs Larl nail hhl retive emation Irbylame tin - 5 unenbtained - mocaninus Nu a K Dell - 2:3 027050
bituminous
coal, roentgenographic categorics for
pneumuconiosls were nined anthracite roal. Survey een- roentgenopyaphic ing whift of exposure por werk- with dyspnca. A muniber of ern, The free biturines work-
nodules, and (2) the silica (silicon pulmonory dust macules and emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspinea in addition lo dust rom 10; to 4GC of Appalachian chitis and coal workers have rorntgeno lur, graphic evidence of pncu- symptoms, and physiral findinge have been dimieult to make, early stages. erpecially in tions to disability. h is the Theru dificulties prob of the rurrent ably arise from the faet that roal workers pheumeoniosis ("black ographie features of lung" is not a single disenne prores Another aim but a composite of inultiple disorders, and severity, dupendent upon gro enigenographic gruphic aren, exort occupat lunal C posure, and opparent indiridual sus- ceptibility. These nultiphe *
Unfertunately. there was poor
verage coal dunt d.
which appear to be most closcly correlated pulnonaly, the tnu chsorciers enk font of uir DIAMU.UR fur paritiles per
macules
hronchiolitis;(d) erntriluhu- A Iters and cledrie Inomsive panlolular, and paracicaticicial : who drill into sepurate di-rove prireses 11 rough R search uf sunly tn evahate thcir L a ruentgen abnormulities Patients Studied and Methods frun I'nrey kania and Wet Vir- ginia. Thirs-one hal low-rank nerly northtn W. Vi,; TL ether 46 hat alvay mine d highrr PUBLICATIONS
meconiosia, but co relatiuns belween emphysema: und (5) tulerruluin and such roentgenugraphie abnormalitics, oivusionally othr di ras preesses,
There
appear to make differing weitalbo. - individoal influences a the
that a
each of which may vary in inridehre muconiunis with dinalility esida in girts
orde indude(1)the prinary enal dust Patirnts, The palients wrr : un. nr informatinh
maculu; () silicuris (a) ehrunie hrun- derground miners af hituminoux cnal lis and uthr data muerning nri;
Farm thy a nf hynn Tri-6 M- . a Ilnhy 3101 nivr, Krpter : - L. Crsiet Resis, 4 tou du I JAMA, Apral or 1972 . Vol 220, 2
mined ulway onl in rummties
I a Lulle . a - 9 Frans.hunis 1-t-try Stale of smthn high-whtib estern
Ponn-shania or in Tu irmed ly he whril I-th
10346287
