Vol. 285 No 29

EDITORIALS

1317

The New England
Journal of Medicine
Officia! Organ of
The Mossachusetts Medical Society
Founded le 18:2 as NEw
the EXGLAND JOURNAL or
MEDICINE AXD SURGERY and continued in 1828 as Vol. of
the BOSTON MEDICAL AND SURGICAL JOURNAL
PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATIONS
or THE MABSACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY
Claude E Welch, M.D., Chainaan
Joseph Garland, M.D., EDITOR EMERITUS
Franz J. Ingelfinger, M.D., EDITOR
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
George S. Richardson. M.D., Book REVIEWS
Robert O'Leary, ASSISTANT EDITOR
EDITORIAL BOARD

ACTION ON ASBESTOS
ASDESTOS workers are unintentional victims of
industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary
fibrosis, pleural calcification, mesotheliomas and lung
cancer. Asbestos exposure is now
involving not only air but also
wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the
lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex-
posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or
ferruginous bodies may be, there is no doubt that
electron mieroscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers
ease in the general population at this time, the
presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing.
Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by
most chemical and physical means and can float
freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods.
Asbestos diseases have a long latent
sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must
made now, On the basis of "reasonable probabili-
ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition
of dose-response relations.
These thoughts are reinforced by the work of
new ship construction include better than usual
tions. A second study of Murphy et al.: reports two
cascs of pleural disease (one mesothelioma) in
workers who sanded asbestos foor tiles. Since the

widespread,
drinking water,

Alexander Marble, M. D.
Samuci Proger, M.D.

Saul s. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos.3 Al-
Leroy D. Vandam. M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-

20
period,

Jane a Desforges, M.D.
Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.

Ronald A. Malt, M.D.

Arnold L. Smith, M.D. years or more. We therefore believe that more

be

Robert E. Johnson, M.D.
Norman G. Levinsky, M.D.
Francis D. Moore, M.D
Charies A. Sanders, M.D.
Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D.
Ronald A. Arky OK
Dana L. Farnsworth, M.D.

John w Litdefield, M.D, Murphy and associates in this issue of the Journal
Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, 6 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in
John R. David, M.D. exposure data and Indicate a high incidence of as-
Edward A. Gaensier, M.D. bestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have
Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-

Louis Weinstein, M.D.
Howard Bleich, M.D.

Isadore N. Rosenberg, M.D.
Milion C. Paige, 4 BUSINESS MANAGER

AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au-
und should consult "Information for Authors, This material thors simulated the working conditions and found
may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour- concentrations of 1.3 fbers per milliliter of TOOm
nel, or it may be obtained from the /ourani office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of
space, and all material, including figures, should be submit- used threshold limit values. A fiber per milliliter of
CASE REPORTS, usually published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 10 fbers every
gence" section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled

manuscript, including references, should be typed double
reference to articles reporting closely related cases A very fbers remains in the
short case report or description of 2 technie submitted as a
"BRIEF RECORDING" should be limited to 500 words,
MATERLAL printed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period.
cine is covered by copyright. The Jourwal does not hold itself
responsible for statements made 5 any contributor.
NOTICES should be received not later than noon on Mon-
day, 24 days before date of publication.
cies published Requests should be sent to the author.
imply endorsement by the Journal,
Arbor, Michigan 48106.
chusetts 02115.

currently
figures suggest

ted in duplicate.

room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per
an alarming number will still accumulate over a -OI
A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation-
al Academy of Sciences panel has called for control
of asbestos emissions at the source and for protec-
The report also calls for further rescarch on the
fibers; such data are urgently needed 7

these
lung,

that

:

REPRINTS: The Jourmal does not stock reprints of the arti- tion of those who are exposed in their occupations.
ALTHOTGH all advertising material accepted is expected to biologic effects and the physica! characteristics of
SUBSCRIPTION PRICES (worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with
interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates are in U.S. funds only, confidence." Although we endorse these recommen-
MicROrILM volumes available to regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for
through University Microfilms, 315 N. First Street, Ann technical controls based on existing knowledge.
COMMUNICATIONS shouid be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as-
land journal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects

conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance does not asbestos

on cells and tissues are important and must be con-