2AP

AMERICANJOURNALOF
Public
Health

Editorial
Volume 77 Number
ANred I MD. MPH

May 1907 Established 1911

EDITOR Less Hazardous Smoking and the Pursuit of Satisfaction
Cigarelles deliver drugs: at roet smoking is drug laking Sernite wurk 2
conhrmed sir otine as - powerfully reinforcing psychoactive drug Fax the con um
ASSISTANT EDETOR er. then; ulra low yicld cigarelies raise the simple issue uf Jrug culting un
! 1 Rothman, DEPH adulteration The unsatinfactoriness of ultra low yeld cigarenes a . E - at
population hased sample smuke Kigareties in the range6 in mg ne
Mary F. I DPH U97 2mg € Despre the publicay abaut dinease nsks et umuking and the wwer
Chaiperaon belief that ultra lone yield cigarettes are len ha - anust a a al nus
Doris Bloch, RN. DPH (1989) the sireet for these cigareties, les alone walk the advenised male
No doube umokers have routinclyned ulura lom yeld CHEATEUC in
Joy o. Dryfoos: MA uves routinsly have reiecied them an unsainfying a me 3
Manin u ! no (1988) delivers abant 80 per cent diluting ait in sesh ouf taken by ofhual smoking ma a
Frederick C Green MD non Thos smokers : learn the irichs of compensatory muns are mants hhe h
persisi in smoking theu cigareises tha are those smokers who de not de -
uth clon compensation lechniques For in low you carenes. the
smoking les hniques are £ hans the Jiluting air venis on hher uh hor un
D Rogers, MD MPH (1987) taking larger puffs, and at Maror and Formann . mun us sumph smais any mure
Zena T MA MR (1989) cigarenes per dan A smeke sell vriecusin 2 icompe
Ferundo M Trevino. 2 urn 11987) compensators keave) may cause much et the discouraging 7 a los un
Experimental Endrar - Res en experments hos more en raging pis
Joe I Wray, MD. MPH - of whal might be ganed frum the wwespread use 4 ular lenw yield
smokers who refuse to quit smoking West et 1 random - assigneu 14
remain 1 theu om hrand (average LI ma une un 14 ma 3 and 11 ume
STAFT le ch le an uhra las yeld hrand (0 ma
H McBeach, HD MPH smoking the ultra low yield group hac plasma mice ne leveh that - unly * pe
Eree . die DerchoriMansinging Editer cent of the own hrand erour is 22 ngimi) .
Adnenne ALh mo of per CEM uo - =11 ppm) IAlihough DER and un the Mruhnd um
Publiranwa Drectur explicaly instructed not to hlost hher ven IK West Prryonal L
Deyne I Simularly in the expermental component u shes E cont Hensi
Ansistent Manngang i panial compensati in umukers whe asere forued lu
Marve Barnen (Beha ora blocking of Alier entr a nex forbidden - this Mudy but ma ha
ENarial Anistant discouraged by delails of the procedure -
The tombaned lesson of the cruss sec Luna surveyt and the forced a
Proder Tans i expenments is Lhat i there is lo he ma auma progress with she intens style -
Darkene Dobbs yiek cigareile #s use Areds lo be ene couraged mare forcelully Onr ul the
thaladyemaing Aurunat uneter dun pus up asth ulura lue wachl . that higher vuelu cigarene JTC
eas purchave - Imagine chusulate hove 3
desen nland sus Cundy maght veer irrat but - sell uh 5 and
oscudoc hes a would galher dust especially the ante nus . ver
George 1 Aanas JD, MPH the more satislyng I a ates
if cigareine manufacturers were requared lu make only lw The
(guarding againsi more problema bise dengns . theve
urcale efiect on expesures le smat a las 2 the de in the unde >
blocking vent holes and by smoking grealer numbert per day And ma

of cutomers for these products even in calth
Maron and Fortmann in that issue of the

nous Californa Ax nuterd by
only - pe ent of

EOITORIAL BOARD
lesne H. Hurier en (1987)
Mary Grace Kovar. DEPH MS -
I haure HD. MPH (19es)
Juluia A Walle MD (49611 evicwed in the
Philie G Weder MD usedy

my net totuth

E
hnge
remain E
a
mg tar - I 10 dan -
le eb Lutered à
- alun
uhra lum yickl a
en
uh
2
mreh
cigareties
2
530

-

report

Michefi Horion
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS
- Nrala - rhe La
I G Rosenkrant PHD
I 1 Thre 1 Nom
1 H i MD, DEPH

I 1 F Fack as drug contens of medication: . sincily regulated au uhund be Jrus ve a
Jeas Connelky MLS smoke Many umuken would over imurke ihese carancies by breal ng ut

5 F &

2501662717