BOULDER DATLY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

Area stores

SA

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For the Delly Camera
"9300
kids.
kar

referring to the Increased enforce-
penally for Hugas tobacco 001 m
pour 3 Anq the cigaretles. The
the cigarettes. and, if asked, they
(See DOULDER, Page 3C)

mont.

Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky oFq8nous
nesses this week during a crack- get'caughtwere issued Lsummons-
down on selling cigareftes to mt: to appoar UI court. The. maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve horis H $200 fine
of the American Cancer Soclety's The suna involved two tcams.
Grcat American Smokeout, was in- Each included u uniformed 'omcer.
tended 01 educate clerks that it's il- a plain clothes outcer puz UM1
legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School girts, Who
Police targeted gas stations, -005 giris' parents signed a waiver al-
vënience, drug, grocery and **p lowing them to Take partinthc.op:
"Taw has never been enforced, said The Juvenlles wore told not to
JOPINOSL Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
We're letting the stores know had to show identification.

courit stores. mun, recently, the eratlon.
this is going to happen,' ohc sald,

Boulder police sting stores
for cigarette sales to minors
At the Conoco atation, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry
28uh SL, one of the girts asked when she was istlied ESUR,
the cashler for a pack of Mart mons ous caid 300 wns 1 stur
boro Lights. Officer Rob Hauke- 313p, and couldn't DION RU
ness, In plain clothes, poogs In court COSts. Haukêness poul 6-
The-hahind her to witnese thç CONTOTO her, saying she ninos
A placard near the cash regis. the Distriet Attorney to do com
ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity ecrvice inatrad of paying
clerk asked to see some identifi- The clorka, not thc store OWT-
cation. The buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the.
she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do It to -uspund
cd at the license, set it down on stores or clerks,' she said.
the counter, and sold her the though, when you scc clerks "Al:
Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted 15:
stepped dn and identified him storos and clerks al all but four
celf as a police officer, Manka recelved summonses.
came In and wrote the clerk A Thic wock'a operation was the.
"When I Nee them ask for an year. The first sting, conductes
E I think they're going to 2 in Scptember, targeted 16 stores:
osnt the cale," Haukeness sald. und ST clerks received sum

(From Page 1C)

The clerk at Colony Market,

transaction.

prubably work out a dealwith-

No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the nne,
drlver's licensé, which showed court costs.

cigarettes.
summons.

ing, you might think otherwise. cry: -
punnos tobacco sale stine this:

"But uhey never 8

monses.