INYMXOTHIS FILTER SNIAI 2D |Another
New York Times March 1, 1968 Page 34
Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs to Use It By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pali Mall of Canada, "pri the second-larg. est cigarette sompany in that country, contracted yesterday with the Strickman Foundation 01 pay a penny a pack royalty for use of the filter invénted by Robert L. Strickman. Tho company, which is 30 per cent British-owned, but Canadian-managed, sells 12 bil- lion cigarettes a year, very few of them in the United States. The agreement was the second la two days with the founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Company of Canuda, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company, with annual salcs of more than 18 billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. Strickman, was surrendering its rights to the filter to the fonndetion. The university said it had "made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering a highly con- troversial und competitivé com- mercial field." Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financial the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to it last summer by Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set dn on Wednesday byl the New Jersey chemist as a charitable institution to ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has, received $200,000 in advance royalties. According to Robert > Katz, the unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts could eventually bring E about $5 million a yearin royalties. Mr. a lawyer who. Is secretary Seagram's Distil- Kauz, leries, said that Rothman's Pall nfall of Canada hed been test- ing the. Strickman filtor since last August. Wilmat Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman's, said of the device: "We are sctisticd that nothing exists gives comparclie filtration without SPRIDADE affecting the flavor of the cigarette. - takes out 'more suspect ele- ments withia the cuniext of ac- ceptable (lavor, we fcel that as clgarette shnuld 5 -
Claims Are Disputed The claim that the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ing cigarette flavor has bcen a subject of controversy. Among the most outspoken critics of the filter has been F Ecnator Warren G. Magnuson No Washington, who has con- tended that its claims have been greatly exaggerated. NSnoyL many governmental and privale health reports byl experts habe called cigarette, tar and hiçotine health hazards, Columbia University, in a re- port on thè Shickman filter made publiç un Wednesday, avoided making 2 conclu- So far no United Sates ciga- -frette companies are beliaved 10 be close to a contract fok the filter. Experts say that domes- tic companies need not fènr competion in this country from the Canadien cigarettes because of a 15-cent import duty on each package. Pall Mall cigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana- dian concern.
sions.
stake in
research.
- du which
1002617799
ny we
