True-Talse Questlons S the Chenistry and Psychophys lology of Odor and Flevor
1. H F Some nodorn workers suggest that nocurate heasurement of vibrattona!
frequency (in the for intrared, for exanple) of nn unknown odorant
wili permit prediction of its quallty and intensity.
T . No lenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone hos eny odor; Instead
they react with the mucose fonning new products whlch ore smelled; but
Sone odorants have sterle or vibrational propertles which force the
conclusion that they are odor less whon they are not
I1, in F Present evidence strongly suggests thet different parts of the olfactory
receptor aren, Ilke the retina In the eye, are que alty-specific.
TF Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor
TR No one yet has a - clue as to the criticol reletion between the
molecule and the receptor which pernits an odor perception.
11 The greater the secretion rate of mucous or sellve, the hlgher their pH,
and both pH and tomperature influence the quallty of sensation in the
111 H F The ideal instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sane
quantitatlve range as doos an animal or human sub ject.
1 - Such an Ideet detector hes not been developed.
> : Ihman observors with head In fixed position can by virtue of the two
Indopondent nostrils easily discern stereo snall éffects, 1.e. they
can tell whother his odoront is at the right or left hand, wuch es ore
uses hts two ears in locating the source of sound,
TF For certaln musk-like compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to
trigger - hunon offactory response.
Adnptation 04 one olfactory qunlity does not significantly reduce
sensitivity to any other dissimilar quality, but does reduce sensi-
tivity to all sinllor quelities.
- By employing sini larities nethod of conpering qualitles, one con now
obtain Identity and degroes of difference without recourse 6 troble-
a TR Hunger louers thresholds slightly to some food qualltios but not for
TF In is now possible to identify the Intensity and quality of certain
given stimull sinply by expert examination et the electrophysiologicel
record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons
TF Electrical stimulation of taste in enn yields only reports of "sour"
and 5 "metallic" or "alkaling" quality.
H F Direct electrical stlmuletion of the olfactory 50 . has
successfully accompllshed.
Although total anosela is rore In humans and ageusia even rarer, there
ls evidence that in analogy to color vision deflciences, some
ere Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while having norma
sensitivity to others.
Toplcal anesthetics applled to the tongue . hr nu that different que Iltles
- Certain endocr ine diseese entitles make It possible for sote people
quite sensitively to "snell" such "odor less" substances 09 tucrose or
sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both teste and odor can be
reduced to noceal by manipulation of endocrine levels.
- Promenopausa wonen at the time of ovulation find certain odors
disegreeable whlle at other times in the menstrun cycle these a vde or

some elenents possess taste.

surface In order to be see led,

chemicel senses.

v.

sone words.
others.

yer beon
people

VII,

50297

of taste disappear at different rates.

they will Judge quite pleasant.