[
ss/uls
AT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira Ne York Timer Servier
wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars - made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even in recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22
TAIPEI I The Marlboro cow- dn sales of $119 million le 1986, trade talks between the United New Tawan dollari (79 cents)for boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just S4 4 million. For- Siaics and Taiwan. Wang Chicn- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghng from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis town. His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered R ing in Japan are more liberal Com- guitar-playing jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted give out free cigarettes and gifts," B aggressive campaign. Television This frenetic fast-growing 08- cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawed in the United Sutes in 1971, tioe of nearly 20 million pcople ly because both Taiwan and Japan school students - 12, is years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-standiog restrictions. are DOM smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry . label that, year and for the first time, - According to the Brown & Wil- rette companics promote cigareties roughly translated, says, "For the mubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? It's O.K. to have them sake of health, don't smoke too made . America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" - warning much milder To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year, re- joy - 915, billion trade surplus with thao the health-warning labels brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in si uomy in new sales. the United States But those people mandated is the United Siates.
and dod-pur-wom stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
panies can advertise on TY after
OUI this city, next to posters of a peroent. er of Winston cigarettes.
"They go 01 amusement places 10 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting
for most of the growth in American he said recently. "Many scbool- advertising of cigarettes was out
In Japan, which has population millioo of 120 and where people the past year. The market share &5 American cigarettes increased to ers vigorously deny 10 from 3 percent la 1986, and the promoting
Wacturers have essentially intro- cigarette advertising 01 the tbe American companics of entic- ing teen-agers 0) take dn moking, operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992. tised, altbough it does now, pressure from Washington In the alcohol. year since stiff restrictions on for. $ cigarettes were dropped. a American cigarettes UT Taiwan for peadod growth American man- sfacturent at time when sales in export way and tbe number of anti-smoking laws is way dn
are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe bompanies say Amencan 'urtu - human being, you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan not 50 much because of the adver- tising a because they are of better quality and taste better. American and with the way are cigareties made of they and bacco and have less tar than Tai- producta say wancse cigarettes which are not
duced
ialand, and that has created a furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes year. that." Oovernment officials bave accused umports have more than tripled
American
cigarette manufactur- there in any- They are not lowed to advertix 6 small stores where cigarettes are RE well u through promo- also 120 ads - year in place drculation mags- acl- dom cxocods 200,000. people Tuwar im-
blended to-
charge the American companies more than percent last year, thing BUOIN their The soversmeci-administerd dicts that it could grow to 15 8. 20 sales pitch.
botly deny.
Department of Agriculture oid thry have no plans to change their blendod. American pressure to open their have they pusbed to do 10, they say. said Jaw Shau-kong L legisiator. tions. Cigarette uampentiva may courage its people to amoke, why zines, cach of whosc causc of American ada. They hire rettas accounted for leas than 1 per young attractive pro-mak-6! girla oent of tbe market wearing short skirts to give "P cit- posed strict quotas on forcip and then it become a habit. It's cigarettes and imposed stiff tariffa
the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials E tbey resent loe television Of la newspapers. Nor The government agreed to allow markets le producta that éndanger They can advertise only througb others into tbe business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and posiers hung near cigarette racks or
sales F really burts our feeling, sold,
have soared, generating much- I., the United Sustes docs not en
to Taiwan? Younger
the Uailod States are down E femaics are amoking 1 lot 8 Bdore last year, foreign ciga- According to the U.S. Depart- arettes free is nightclubs k's a digarettes, banced imports at * moet of Agriculture, people in Tal- difficult for Sunok boys to resist, 70,000 retail outlets licenaed to sell
immoral.
e - rerult, imported agaretie cost
0444500052
