AKE2223022
Life Sciences Vol. 15, pp- 1291-1300 Printed in the 9.3.A.
Perganon ress
HR
or an ta PYRES BY KICROSONTS FRON TIS or PRECOUNT Nati F TAT FTERE Iress T. Mang, Ronald E. Ra seuesen and T. Timothy Crockart Cancer Reeearch Ean itute, Untveraity of California San Praneleco, and Depart- -ent of Community ard A evironnontal Medieine, Univeraity of California, Irvine*. (Received in final form 26 August 1974 Sumary Pratreateatal of hansters with benzo (a)pyrene (BaP) grestly Incressed uhe In vitro artabol in of Par by lung alere anees fron prognant han- atars, and p leus eftect on the metaboli ar of Fal by liver miere- acenns - The produetion of various metaholites of Rap by luns nuere- dihytrodibpdroxy-Re (9,10-diol) and 1,8-diol vere Increasod tares than that ef the 4,5-diel. to she ehse of liver microsomas only the yield- of 9,10-diol and 7,8-diol wara incresent ovar the contrel levels, The presence of eyelohexene oxide in the incube tion atr tures decreaned the production of the dieln. Dasal-level BREYES activities in placental fetal liver, and Fotal akin microson en in metaholizine RP vere very low. Pretreatnent of pregnant hans tars with RaP indaced Rap-netabolizing enzymes in fe : tierue 2-3 fold. format in coal tar, nit ral oll, car exhaust, tohacen seoxe. a - foode, ote à In vitro stadiee shoun that ne tabolie activation of Bar is required for ita intaraction with proteins and nuclele setAa (2,m. Farller studian unh rat livar pr aparations (4,5) 5 harater liver micromones (6,7) shoved that bar le metahelined mainiy 8 phenolie and dihydrodihydroxy talell derivatives, and to quinomes which are ensymatie or air owidation peoducte ot marahle phenolic netabolitas is'o) as vell : acme untitentified nota polar retatelites. The metabolies et Bat has generally been neamured la the production et 3-hydroxy- Bar (3-0H-RaP) vhich ie ofter one of the major metalelites In vitro 5 3-0H- K-regton epowides et te - pelycyelie aronatic hylrocarton ITNIT htet to cell-
sonos war incranet to dure was eae of the natar sat
nte 1-hutrone-BA (3-CH-RAP - the metabolir yielde of 9.10
Banse (alpyrene a ie . carcire and
neental contant that is
DaP ie tosie to cultured calle (9) hut it abour DER in vitro (6) and has not been
11etle interaction un th to be a arcinooente. Cu the other hand,
1291
