RATINGIRIGHT
New! Improved! Dangerous?
4MAI More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium. Experts Fear Thric Reactions
B, AFRANCE LINONA frent a 1 Eadinghm Rar hured d cereal a A randes kachting ham - cheese sand- En und . conple et wgetables topped with mongrine, filuwed a daly multivita REFAKFAST aun F pill kor nutritional innennce. The while watching TV in the evening laltcup (olas a cap) st ke mreum Sounds - on pachm-bred Mrute Male orance ale prrity iensonable, right? Actually depending on the hrants you LUNCH danite Juca day's racer corld net you he Ramand chees deret tween 3000 and 3.500 miligrams of cald am sicaticantly mee thas à Rairable Upper latale Level" a 2,500 millymans a hy the the National Arademg et Skienees AFTERNOON SNACK (KAS). Sn many foode are how fortifind with ralclure itut a See beeone ench eander wa over the safety Nealt Ant that hus acens EUR DINNER wition reseradan ouncerned A wth anything toe 1 cas be soes Richard Wiod, che of the COMMENT Nionviabiaty Laborntory an the leman Nutrition Reseanch Center - The University in Boston. The window betwee aume intae and the upper Smin a retr thely nall a Indeed the feguate intale mahlebet by the NAS a 1,000 to 1,300mil lep Drear Caleun Ra vanilia ice cream Tama dan depending on agh Oide twice dost madetad - Glant and Safeentyl that yancure and you ve reachod the safety orling Fue many other eutrionta, Jourd TOTA have b hacroane the alegante intahe andre timer hefore machingt risky levels What can happes a you bke in too mach enleitus OVET Gue? Wod sugn thene have beun Son the onker a 130 cax reports of cal clun tonicity, whkh can manidest iterle a 6 Ngram perhaps Inie amme a the hunelion. the wacnd is can caded, stone furmation, mant duend rine balanc aute re
mush moee aklun Uhan E lant of de real enntalant 300 in 400 mtriorams af de or course sage Pardur's Weaver Sir pen net utetting nely 200 in 400 mitioprams it calchurs dails the coreal ppas stis K ux N. Aul a lot et people do ot ond that 1 Wood oncunk H you dont brink mith, your culrium commungation le alant 300 lo 400 miligramm due he reys - . rule of thumb people shouki with the exocption of Ileancy though de ECS archers agrée that it's salest aot tn ont auns inces than 2500minigramsed (enlrim daily, regardare ne variations a abeorption ratck Count up Woaver Lys. I NON pare not serings ava 2 Wuod anys Car staying withe die En h partinlar concern it huschals with, Ly muny trying 62 Not avere enlciun and les leennge son who already gets plenty he beer diot of the unount 0 food the exts % might In - clonkurtitiod locange julee, al cin fortifiod i eerend and an on. but bo guades mill ee Lalet ou a the omtaige - forelell practine a T . couple nt bowts at SStre a an afterachod anse * could @ be fhrensands of Lr guiting Farms ofcalchan Waod and other rescerchers de autrey dat an beat so get your ealcium fireen a man etr ne finds rather than 000 or two heavily furtified ones and dut a kmt soure of de should coment foon milk and other dalry pour ucts Misturig Weaver expens apt who have Lace deficient in rakfum U lem low in munesitim rihollavin, vitamle 1 vitamin in 1 mable h m was kind n oncatup shupping ke My that E with Nud conventre too modemed Janere Flert mineral rescarcher at Pur proterted and he COMPORTARKY And it's wealend hy ine Setk vitamin
A Calcium-Fortified Day 3/4 ep Rotat carta cup kunda 1 in - a 200 an le: Seiles dovas Nation Engla 1 Nate oun bar ea Allais ONStan Lrast 1/2 oup hroccil tapoed with tap Sheth Semar Courten Crock Ra Callum haled potate, tapped with . tose Sheass Seread Country Ruek Mus orridikasssanand EVENING SNACK to ine
The enklum mecemendation for teenagen le DOET milligrams adelts to age 90, L000 milligrams: and aduhs Sleglus, 1.200 miligrans. Het with the dovens of ealciure foruset foods oe the market in ase to commme den
mineral, more 2,500 - ee caurn- ruma L000 110 350 40 know 100 120 272 and 150 110 200 51 22 I 162 GOO 200 30 1,487 EU people Wienver
a
today,
vis Solivert kw . sanck r in the milligram De Tulcrable Upper Intrke Last set En the National Acalnany at lote aftorenon. A4 dinner aome beefor chirk Scienres non en diet of only 000TT ralurios Check a the Libuning mune
un aral Bune Mitabuli-e Lab at Tults, Gis package of nutrints N N o a ecreal, Thafs an exceasive leve ether substanns freen rolrimin fortiller
thom, distinens und wt thoue cal Oubere - that callum fortilel 6xode artress She alus questine the LOND E H in lade ment dimeux in we e 0 The hivayn, made a and thaue, Natio, br am cosonable eption - Carece the conorpt lumans of rakclum prwr - to every serr inx to get cakhan bet ml nresaurily deve Then. toe Agpercalcemils, as toxiclay et Oruha Ant 1 Wond, he not partic an anprecindented kvel, probubly higher Inrin Rosenberg director of the Nutri- have had stre parteularty the part Tou marh d who conure lots mare than Ithe) 1 A L und A the quaka h the hoty's abeerpaion tin a single nutrient will late people into an can alan redoce abaurgtion of two other claima Some populations wha depend on a 2 cale uns A wit abarb - calchum il thinklog they Ne nouribling themelves ade uttalminerabo trou anit ning the btter a largedy un dury diet. sad ax comberds In you hare divited doees thrunghont the de quately. "Yon dont go of the howk of vel artuch h acccesant for wound braling and Eas Atrica and the Larps athe hard reindeer à you That's wiry pougk ate tahe 600 Lix prakut dictary cholces because jut 2 prupey houctionlag a the leamune menten in northern Scandinavin, "lypicaliy et 6,000 Baillighans' worth of ealchum wapplewents packedone ue tan heavily fartified Nodu : penusarie sbelves rabes the Fur intance. Dreyer's h num les nauket I thet the euklan in the vercul le fr dennity is abe strengthened ly excrdan, he Not Uhit Wood thinks eale cium-fortified 21 calchm per Tialfeup inatead of the lypical every 300 mitionam n ralcium consunind LE I is neoessary for calcium absorp I area bed thing "ithink they E gond 100 matigrams, and ileaney remarks, A (the amount le a on of mak the bode ab bin- and perfaps he 000 mach sodjus port i he suya. Averugn latakes are much, mixed forting on the juek fand sital morbs 100 mitigrams, de ronghly 30 procent. calicine. Bue walntances wurk lu flah the be sarne whenen 20 le 29 years 41 averupr Adis Connle Vilenver michum investiga du ahorgitine rate gior I Ir you hury h other wenla, as Hun perte it. "cald only abeut 7ux millyrums et caddum date tor M Pardue Univernity le Weat Lalayette, (hree to Faxr eups A: anfik In one Nation un h only ene part et the I 1 he wlun they shoukl le convesing 1.00 au la Tdhate to ane peopk un the 000000 1 cuntains about 1.000 millignans 1 casss you ve 1 homt a Tutal doean Teraux And wumen as pur oldes, whe needingtoget 1 ealcian toeat lots dwialles to 15 preme hout 150 a mon yoe 3 rossered all A hosex lee in outy about lelt Un a un fo a sim problem while making another onn Iprevs onn serving mpplice 1.000 mitigrama, yea Bating Ruhr colunnint Laarenc dere incere an the ande a 20 a you unil 1 Dunsuce Haghen chief of the Caldi Inclant minds yug A net nhauting terribly Uwirerwity Firafik a Nivitk
purticulu winembir. he reemerks, and a butificution, sivs Robert Hraney.a ealc
um researcher at Creichton University ir Enfication, sthe onmunents a certalale fooda
à
- ularty concerned about anyoe L ovet Chan ie ang A cadctum furtalied Sood don Jocararch Conter at nuta isparticulurty
peegle who D "There are lote of yery healthy
ha suce rene rvations, be
N had atudy a Denet exmopanc aun to 0002 miligans el onklem per M and de te advinert te sealkrin Cheer tara 300 suyw a Warl norta Highealrin dite te heve "absohMely so probicins, he anys miligram palls . fifferent facab While sad penblems bave heen rase unda about udeh foods de miners crasepollons ondi to condaded haunwlubatity testing Ar Theals VOUR bones thrvet a thris heaming more common ing le envam thel bontalon 300 mitigrans I and as wellas themkhim in mit Hos Aboukd he asnting 1.20 mitilerame are sak a Cit and calories. Then youre solving ock ligrums, ate the t with the Total Since
Fhr he andothers do have sone
Hean D dandrated the point vethen he de peduts cat tuo dhes nat doal eves have prodirer General Mins On one hand, cause you re getting a of cuddunt The But an the onkium a I ma igoer un mineral from to baly via the urlac ahaorb seh alunt IGO of thret, Heancy Nign Lindner connvtier efites S he
suw, the plethura - calciuns Hortiriod Reum addol to exh lourr tun de recommentations 5 LE
Bu story for men althomeh the ex for thren innce a obenityl I
