SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H. ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.
et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire The symptoms were more common .B build-
In a cross-sectional invesnganon in one building. office buildings built aver the last 50 years with a validated were meatured on a linear analog scale questionnaire. dui where the ventilation system also provided cooling and Ar the same ame, the micro-environment (environmental humidification. irrespective of the xe of the I A characteristics in the breathing rone rather than area direct relarionship between the level of complaints and air samples) € characterized by measuring tempererure, quality parameten : not described. Skov et al. (1967) ex- relarive humidity, respirable suspended particulases, car- amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern [ bon dioxide, noise level, lighting inuensiry, relacive hu toamm halb and 14 older control buildings A level ol symp midiry, and airflow. No relationship I seen between toms was related to - "feecing" factor (carpets, upholstery the degree of sympioms and age. educarion. or duration and horirontal surfaces) sad the "macro-molecular compo of employment at the building or time spent in the build- nent" of dust They also demonstrated - relationship berween Shn on a daily basis. Starissically, complains were the oumber of houn spent photocopying and using carbonles significandy more frequent among Supous men. Envi- copy paper and the level of complaints. Other Hudies bave ronmental characteristics associated with the increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et à 1985) complaint levels in this group included decreased airflow and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute models, there was an association between respirable A cause of complaint in the sick building syndrome by I pended parsiculases and the levels of boch mucous mem suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertaon et brane and systemic complaints. Sarisfaction wish the F (1985) wert unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. I environment as predicted by percepsion of dreft ferences la the concentrations of environmental pollutant did 8 clearty contribute a the degree of symptoms, berween rooms in - mechanically and - naturally veucilete snudies of the sick building syndrome I examine ples measuring dust and - "macro-molecular" traction.
complaints associared with the "sick building syndrome
velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended i to indoor air quality complaints.
riculates and dry-bulb semperature. In regression alshough regression models E suggest t comy were not independent of thermal parameters. inaensiry a also associated 1 complaints. F I measures to idenify predictors of complaints in
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual building. They studied the rooms with the 1 compl rates and used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did demox strate relationship between symptoms and both Area samples la buildings may DOX x representative of the exposures in different points in single rooms Physical characteristics 1 a windows and partitions, computers. and sbelving may infhuence air currents. Radiam hest ma different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroe
ares -
1 exposures simultaneously and include paycho in i samples.
indoor I INTRODUCTION
Complaints termed the € building syndrome" bave lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, mos x led to numerous investigations in the last is years. E are hutants resuh from point sources, so they will X diluted as thought os occur primarily s newty constructed ofice baild- subject .n farther removed from the soarce. A micro 1 inp and, at least in the past, were thought to be t to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very wide variety of causes have been identibed le specifk settings, meat of a building. In addition. all applied occupational and inchuding inadequate temperature and relative bumidity coo- environmental bealth research 2 attempes to relate dose o trol, noise, lighting. vibration. volatile organic compounds beakb effects sufien from the problem that dose . penerally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, environmental sobacco measured e several points in time and then extrapolated to umoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicle exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications I decades spent and contaminated air and boiler fumes. 6bers released while most heakh effects are measured a . single resuk of from duct linings. and € machine offgases 3 odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sam A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnepan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to bour, such stratep most fail (Robertson et al. 1985) was unable to identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the micro wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperarure (temper- eavironment and set these characteristics in relacion os the ature). relative humidity. air velocity, formaldehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at - pven point in I This trve or nepative ions between several rooms in . building report presents results of crom-sectional investigation of - with narural and - building with mechanical ventilacion, problem building using - self-administered. linear analog. where both sets of room had high levels of complaints Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom 1 I a Amistam Prolesor of Medicine und ol Industrial and Environmental Heahh Sciences at the Univeruty of - of Medicine and Public Heahh. a f a Director. Enviroomental Heahh and Salety. Camepe-Mellon Univeruty. Pirtsburgh 1
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem,
(Kreiss and Hodgson 1964; Hodgson and Kreiss 1986). marily to mechanical ventilation A same proup of authors
results is greater than the difference in avenge samples, No investigations in the peer-reviewed litersture have
Schoob
S
