LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday,. March 20, 1977
SISELIV-XOOTY
FADA - a : de -Ta judge 6y the torrent A, protésts the SERTOS received, a sizable por- tion of the. calorie-counting puclic agrees. Long accustomed 6 a cross frgof criticism from industry and consumer activists, the FDA has been-ri bésteged by citizen demands 9 liber- ate saccharin. And moves are afoot in- Cangress to amend the. Food: and: $- Drug Act_ Cuir E K 5 1 ty 1 "There' 's been P. tremendous cuter from all: aver the country," # EDA spokesman la Washington said: "D -ranges from anguish 6 anger: We ve. "never been this busy." ( is "The FDA; for its part: says it a only doing what the- law required ney clause Congress inserted. in the. Drug Act in 1958 says that: tohë safe E it la found. - after gasm tion of the safetrat food additives: Em cancer in min or animat" anaing of nemd becefit, Nar does it rediire: the: ban> 6 be: based. a evidence of cancer H humans
UE - on -F charin:
SERABDER the logic of this a n seem. 6 the: general public, researchers say: that the- animal A périments upon-which such --memsai ryedecisions are baséd do have a sen- sibles rationale- andi that. they 6 bave adirect-bearing on risk to àu- mans :5 a a HILIS true, resear relers acknow riedge; E thaftherats at the center of this fur. ore consumed each day the saccharin: equivalent A reughly 1,000 cans of : lowecalorie soft drink But they-con- sidérit misleading-if not dishanast to : the calorie counell bas: that suggest, this makes the researci tirelevant disparity 6. humans. - 7. who drink oniy one can a People P: a saccharin soft drink € id dat comparably lower risk of cancer. But in population ai 213 million pecpie, collective hazard could still add. as several thousand cases of blad upto dericancer: 5900 p.uc scientists note, rat F cert Moreover, ents that. led. the FDA 6 ban
37 ROBEFT GILLETTE Ttmes de lence Writer NDoes it make s nse 8 ban a popular food additive 8 he strength of what. : € offsprings eat the additive in buge doses? A1 thinks not # trade argani- Allanta comes trom manufacturers oi dietary bas food and drink, spent page newspaper ads.across the coun- E berating the E ood and Drug Ad- ministration for its decision 6 ban saccharin, is the oniy nonnutritive- : - a A sweetener curre atly cn the market. Even the K IA is willing 3 admit thère's it basic difference between rats and humar : cne @ ad in the. Wall Street Journal: observed. "It's. just anothér a mpie of the arbitrarg mtire of big EU remment" 1
% a
happens when hundred rats and." I the law- -speciflcally the Dala- : Calorte Contral Council, Inc. R. - Fgo ficed) additive shall be deemed- cation, whose 000'0-s annual budgat. which are appropriate for the evaiua- of dollars in the last few days for E-IM stiduce ITpé ciause doesinct allaw € bal
: thousands
-
> E
7035437
0087432
TIMN
