Carcinogenesis vul 15 m 13 rp - 2725 1924 arcinogens met chemopreventive agents
ung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
osan
and
C3 420
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Health Foundation, Valhalla NY 10595, USA by 4-(methylnitrosamino)
models examined 01 date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (1) We have chosen the A/J mouse because previous
The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer In smokers, Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantined and their progression to and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice CI evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastric gavage (i-g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of intraperitoneal injection (i.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and - dimethylbenzickanthracene (9.10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the AJJ mouse ol evaluate the effects of forestomoch were counted. The ig. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4.1 1,12). Results obtained with the Al) mouse can be replicated because il avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injection site and associated mortality A dose - response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung turnor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 rat (11,13) mice killed 9 or 19 wecks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect to tobacco of 24 umol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important Comparisons of NNK and BaP given individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (11. when giv en by the i.g. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either wcre complicated by local tumor formation and mortality, before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP. The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appcars to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 umol of cach, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and subdoses ig., with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we exomined tumor yields obtained dosing. This reginen induced 10.5 +4.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. < combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks, followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethyt isothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure (I This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzy! isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tuinor formation. reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. its purity was establinhed A HPLC as >997 BaP (93% purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4) They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirt containing 5% com oil. as prev riously, 2 play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups ef 15 as sammarized le Table 1 At age 7 weeks. each mouse was kers: (methylnitrosamino) 3-pyridyl)- l-butanone (NNK*) treated by imraperitoneal (ip) injection or by intragastric gavage (ig) win and benzolajpyrene (BaP) 3 NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical is 01 ml cononseed oil. NNK und BaP were bon carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in the 01 ml uned for treatment Injections and gavages were carrin Abbrevlations: NNK. 4-(meshy! Initrosamino) pyrldy! -butunone: individuat dese was one-eighth of the total. Equimolar doses of NNK a a BP. benzolelnyrens: PEITC, pheneihyl isothiocya anaic: BITC, benzyl BaP were used in most of the combination groups, because the amounts of
ridyl)- I-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined
whlch these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
Most previous studies in the AVI mouse have examined We sought 01 develop a model which could be used to
5.9 = 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely this study provide a convenient model for assessing the inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
NNK a synthesized in the American Health Foundation Organic Syethesis BITC 586) purity) and PEITC (93% (Aund were ebtained from the Aldrich Chemical Cempany (Milwaukce, WI). Cottonseed oll was purchased from Female AJJ mice, age s weeks. were obtained from The Jackson Aaovengen (Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the The desiga of the bioassay is illustrated . Figure 1. The mice were divided out for 8 consecutive werks. The toral doses are given 5, Table L Fas NNK and total carcinogenic polyeyelic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke are
Sigma Chemical Co. (Si Louis, MO). described (4).
Introduction to
agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought
isothios rate 'd Intriperitoncal, i introgastrie gavage.
o Oxford Unvenity Press
2721
