BOULDER DATLY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
Area stores
SAT
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For tha Delly Camera nors. kids. kar
referring to the Increased enforce- penally for selling tobacco to a ml: tried to buy the cigaretles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busl-. Store clerks unlucky enougb. OF nesses this week during a crack. get'caught were issueda summons- doun on selling cigarettes in mt: to appoar LI court. Tho. maximum The sting. conducted on the eve horis B 00ZS fine of. the American Cancer Soclety's The Suna involved two tcams. Orcat American Smokeout, was in- Each included u uniformed omcer. tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain clothes omcer. and two legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School girts, Who Police targeted gas stations, con: giris' parents signed 58 waiver al- vénience, drug, grocery and dis. lowing themlotake part thc. op "Tawhas neverbeen enforced, said The juvenlles were told not to Jopinos Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "We're letting the stores know had to show identification.
>
count stores. Until recently, the eratlon. this is going 3 happen," ahc sald,
the cigarettes. and, if asked, they (Sce DOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors de At the Conoco atation, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry 28uh Sl, one of the girts asked when sho was isstieg the cashler for a pack of Mart mons, ous cald oho 912M stur boro Lights. Officer Rob Hauke- 313p, and couldnt afford the ness, 5 plain clothes, poojs le court costs. Haukeness pour "01 Ine-hehind her to witness thç contole her, saying she coulu- A placard near the cash regis. the Distriet Attorney to do tuos a ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity ecrvice inatradof paying clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clorka, not thc store OWT cation. Thc buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the.: she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it 8 -usund cd at the license, set it down on stores or clerks," she said. "Al-: the counter, and sold her the though, when you scc clerks cryc Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted :91 stepped dn and identified him aloros and clerks a allbut four eelf as a police officer, Manka recelved summonses. came In and wrote the clerk a Thie wock'a operation was the: marim I see them ask for an year. Tha first sting, conducted. E I think they're going to 2 in Soptember, targeted 16 stores osnt the cale," Haukeness sald. und ST clerks received sumi
(From Page 1C)
The clerk at Colony Market,
um
transaction.
prububly work out a deal. with-
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, driver's licensé, which showed court costs.
cigarettes. summons.
ing, you inight think otherwise. secund tobacco sale stine SICT
"But uhey never do."
monses.
