0 Epldemid Vol 47 Na. 10, 29 1143-1 147, 1994 Copyright o 1994 Chavier Science 3 Prinsed is Great Britain UV rights rommed 0895-435694 $7.00 cod
Pergamon
0895-4356494)00081-6
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN SMOKERS, EX-SMOKERS, PASSIVE SMOKERS AND NON-SMOKERS ALISON THORNTON, PETER Les* and JOIN FRY P. N. Loe Statistics and Computing Lad, 17 Cedar Road, Sutton, Surrey ZWS SDA, England (Recewed le restsed form & March 1994) Abstract-The extent 03 which current, b and passive smoking are associatod with other risk factors, and the potential for confounding arising from these associations, was studied using a representative sample of 9003 British adults. The distribution of 33 lifestyle factors generally considered associated with adverse health were compared in current smokers, ex-smokers, never smokers living with a snoker ("passive smokers") and other never smokers. or the 33 risk factors 27 showed a significantly higher prevalence .e heavy smokers than in never smokers and only two showed a lower prevalence. For many risk fuctors, prevalence increased with amount smoked, decreased with time of smoking cessation and was increased le passive smokers. The possible magnitude of bias from confounding by the risk factors is estimated It is concluded that confounding by multipk risk factors may be an important issue in smoking studies where weak associations are observed. This applies particularly to studies investigating the possible association of passive smoking with various healch effocts. Smoking Passive smoking Confounding Bias
INTRODUCTION
gists normally do attempt to take account of
Numerous epidemiological studies have investi- such differences where relevant to the endpoint gated the relationship of current smoking, past studied and thus 5 to minimize bias due to smoking and exposure to environmental confounding. Differences between non-smokers tobacco smoke ("passive smoking") to mor- exposed and not exposed to environmental tality and morbidity from a variety of discases tobacco smoke are less well studied, though (IJ. Because smokers and passive smokers are recent reports [4, is have pointed to a possible not a random selection of the population, such confounding of the lung cancer relationship by theoretical possibility that observed differences A study of the literature over many years by between the groups studied may arise, at least in one of us (PL) has led to a number of pro- part, duc 9 differences in exposure from other visional conclusions being reached. Firstly, risk factors and not wholly to effocts of smoking smokers tend to have unhealchier lifestyles than or of environmental tobacco smoke exposure. non-smokers in a number of respects, os that Many differences between smokers and non- they would be expocted to have higher rates of smokers, such as in alcohol consumption [2) and many diseases even in the absence of any effect social class (3). are well known and epidemiolo- of smoking. Sccondly, for many of these lifestyle
studies have always to take into account the diet.
-
factors passive smokers are also somewha worse off than non-smokers unexposed to
*Author for correspondence
1143
