True-ra lae Questlons on the Chenistry and 30'A5010jsAudousked Odor and Flevor 1 H F Some nodorn workers suggest that nocurate menaurenent of vibrationa! frequency (in the far intrared, for exanple) of hn unknown odorant wili pernit prediction of its quallty and intensity. No elenente substance, not even halldes or ozone hos eny odor; Instead they react with the mucose fonning new products whlch are smelled; bur I Sone odorants have sterle or vibrational propertles which force the conclusion thet they are odor less whon they are not. 11, TF Present evidence strongly suggests thet dlfferent parts of the offactory receptor ares, Ilke the retina In the eye, ere quallty-specific. T Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor No one yet has a firm clue as to the critico relation between the molecule and the receptor which permits en odor perception. The greater the secretion rate of mucous or sallve, the hlgher their pH, end both pH and tomperature influence & quallty of sensation in the 111. H The idenl Instrumental detector € ld respond to odors in the sane quantitative range as doos an enimal or human subject. 1 a Such an Ideat detector hes not been developed. Ihman observers with head In fixed position cen by virtue of the two Indopondert nostriis easily discern stereo snall effects, 1.e. they can tel whofter hu odoront is ot the right or left hand, wuch : one uses his two ears in locating the source of a sound, For certel In musk-like conpounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger a hunon offactory response v. - Adaptation to one olfactory qunlity does not significantly reduce sensitivity to any of ther dissiei lar quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to oll sinllor quelities. - By employing a similarities nethod of conpering qualities, one con now obtain Identity and degroes of difference without recourse to troble- vi, 1 Hunger louers thresholds slightly to some food qualities but not for Ir SI now possible to identify the Intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull sinply by expert examination of the electrophysiologicel record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons. Electrical stimulotion of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkaline" quality. Direct electrico stlmulotion of the olfactory senso has nover yet beon successfully accompllshed. VII, 1 Although totel anosala is rare In humans and ageusio even rarer, there is evidence that in analogy to color vision deficiences, some people are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while hoving normal sensitivity to others. Toplcal anesthetics applled to the tongue show that different quellties Certain endocrine diseese entltles make It possible for sote people quite sensitively to "snell" such "odor less" substences es sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to normet by manipuletion of endocrine levels. Promenopausel wonon at the time of ovulation find certain odors extremely disegreenb le whlle at other tines In the menstrun cycle these seme odors
sote elenents possess taste.
surface lo order to be smelled,
chemice senses.
IV.
3030 words. others.
of taste disappear at different rates,
they will judge quite pleasant.
OKI
