LOS ANTRIFS TI:ES
Los Angoles, Californio
October 20, 1954
m
been proved.

hauril upon the premise that hination n' a partirular type
nenection hetween riea- in each nf the three categorics
ret smoking and disease 2 has alrcady produred 'a sale
Might Take Six Monthe one it is, so all can be made
Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. I not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Carence Cook Litte,
compiete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad-
date, said that "some sav we visnry bnard and seient-fic di-
tive evidence before develop- try Research (ommittee, de-
ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would
nne has said just what the de- produre some nf "the defni.
finitive evidence wmid be." iive evidence" to waich Dr
Hr sand he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In his Talk in the Ameriran "We wiil tarkle simultan-
system was more important, line of the industry's research
migh: prove surcessful in six do not have today the experi
months, "with iuck," he said menta! evidenre that wi'l prr-

cigarette ID 50, seientific re-
scarch should prove which
should find one, "since peo-
ple like to smoke cigarettes."
rector o: the Toharro
seribed the outlines nd stud-
Tackle Unknewns

Calls
Safe'
Cigarettes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming
NEW YORK. Ort. 19 (ILP

Expert
for

lale University statistician

should

wait for more defini-

Indus.

this viewnoint.

The evidence ennnecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eously manv of the unknowns
arette smoking with bath Hammond said the relation- in this feld of tobaccn use in
lung cancer and heart dis. ship nf rigarette smoking to relation to human health. à be
ease is "overwhelming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out-
something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. We seek definitive
once about developing "a safe health. than the relationship findings in an area where
cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to murh suggestive work has
cal scientist told the annual find "a safe cigarette" from heen done. The program nf
meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recngnizes tha: xe
Tobacco Industry Research Inhacen, there are varinus relationship hetween ret ron-
Committes ansounced some of types n! fiters, and there are mental factors, includ lins
the details nf ax sciemific re- variona terhn'ques n! euring The most

Cancer Society today.
At the same time the scien-
the advisory board of the
srarrh program

Outlines Described
There are various types of
which a tobaren, he Raid, and it may

mit scientific eonclasions rn.
garding the rause and Ffert
smnkire and lune eancer
important nroect
current lung cancer rase: in
10 medical centers im the Ent
ed States and Canada,

he thar some fortunors rom- set up was a dirret study >

SOT ANGE LES EXAMINER
los Ange: les, California
October 20, 1954

It will include numerous
studles of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers,
as well as tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. The apecifio research
grants, financed by the TIRC,
will be announced jater.

HFALTH

ON TOBACCO
YORK, Oct. 19-(PH
A broad atx-point study seek
Ing knowledge whether eigarets
or other forms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health haz.
ards was announced today,
It is the first announcement
of - big research proxram
headed by the sclentifie ad-
visory board of the Tobacco In.
dustry Rese areh Committee

NEW

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062