DAILAS MORNING NEWS
Dallas, Texns
April 14, 1954

Tobacco Firms Ask

New Cancer
Studies
NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing
growers: and tobacco
charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers.
tional" statements linkdng smoking Among those quoted by the com-
and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer
Inatitute of the United States Gov-
relationship of ermment, which said F a 1953
cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of
for exhaustive research de estab- had not been established. lung Several cancer
lish the basic cause of the disease. of the institute's scientists also
The tobacco industry research were cited,
Others quoted were the Damon
booklet cas- Runyon Fund, which called for
taining previously published state: more research, and Chicago à
ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgoon Dr. Max Cutler, who
itiès doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons
by olher cancer experts that tobac- develop lung cancer partly because may
of smoking but that to accept the
The earliest, whitten in 1923, sald conclusion of a direct
there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientitic relationahip
none that would produce turnors. hazardous."
The most recent, dated last March # smoke in the lungs were a
"9r said much more research must sure-fire cause of cancer, we d all
be done before causes of lung can- have had it long
or any other kind of cancer quoted Dr. Clarence ago," Cook report
The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratory, Bar Har-
S January to combat mounting bor, Maine.
charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the
up of nearly every.major cigarette University of Texas School of Medi-
nanufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Inaur

Industry
alded picture of the
committee issued a
co causes tung cancer.

k

apd
the

cer
can be established

director of the Roscoe B. Jackson Littie,
ance Company and British author-
itles, Neariy all those quoted
agreed that no conclusions çould be
reached until an absolute cause for
lung cancer has been established
The report was described by an
industry spokesman as 5 "in-
terim" statement, pending ane
nouncement of the choice of a
prominent scientist to supervise
basic cancer research de be th
nanced by the industry. That scien-
tist will decide how the industry's
cancer-research money is la he
spent. No date has been set for his
At the last count, the committee
said; there were more than S
cancer research grants ih the
United States alone, "any one of
which might produce evidence to
unlock the secrets of lung cancer,"

selection.