HKE2228112
SANT BAKBAR >
unse 5

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO

Le : 2

in VI H 17
FAPARTMI / : rain
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willian H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Research rourdation
715 Kuir Lands Vista Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. Fishman:
and Salk.

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolla rescarch Lordunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes
should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnrent of a focal center for rcsearch proorams on oncodevelopmental
prublems is parti:ularly ieely. It will be of o:at potential importance for
pulling tegetter work by a number of laboratories directec toward isolation,
characteriztaion and dotornination of the sionificance of huran oncodevelopmental
antigens such as alphafetoprotein and carcinocssbryonic antigens.
One of the goals of the work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship
of increased serua concentrations of AFP to preralignant lesions or carcinopen
exposure in humans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systors clearly derion-
strate tnet anirals exposed to hepatocarcinouens have eleva ated serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developrant of malignant (imors. It is hoped that systeretic
study of huran scra frun differert ources uill determing if serus AFF concun-
In addition, the role of environnental factors such as hormonal influences on
the production of oncodevelopinental gene prick.1 can be further explored in
different sy: Lems Such data inplics that the prod;u tion of oit odave elopmental
gene products by turor cells is net a fixed property of a given tumor but is
We look fonrard to working with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the important subjert of oncodeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoger exposure

subject to environmental controls.

express ion.
Best regards,
Stewart Srll, M.D.
Professor
SS/nb