ea(uls

AT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
New York Timer Servier

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 08 New Taiwan dollars -
made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even in recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22

TAIPET The Marlboro cow- dn sales of $119 million. la 1986, trade € between the United New Taiwan dollari E cents) for A
boy la his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Staics and Taiwan. Wang Chicn- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghng from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly is shieng. Taiwan' S, deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis
town. His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered R ing in Japan are more liberal. Com-
duyirjd-mms jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted pive out free cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign. Television
This frenetic, fast-growing 08- cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawod in the United Sutes in 1971.
tioe of nearly 20 million pcople a because both Taiwan and Japan school students 12, € years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
amoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long- slandiog restrictions, are DOW smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry - label that,
year and for the first time, - According to the Brown & Wil- rette companies promote cigareties roughly translated, says, "For the
mubstantial number of them srere liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? It's O.K. to have them sake of healuh, don't smoke too
made in America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" - warning much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year, re- joy 915, billion trade surplus with thao the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting 51 $i billion in sew sales. the United States. But those people mandaled in the United States.
Wacturers have essentially intro- ln Japan, which has - population are just like robbers. JI you are A Tbe bompanies say Amencan
ing teen-agers 0) uake dn moking, more than 0 perceat last year, thing Buoin with the way they are cigarettes are made of blended to-

and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.

panies can advertise on TV after

out this city, next to posters of - peroent.
en of Winston cigarettes.

"They go 01 amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

for most of the growth in American he said recently. "Many scbool- Supnupape of cigarettes was out-

paonp cigarette advertising 10 the of 120 million and where people,
ialand, and that has created E furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year. E
Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled F American
tbe American companies of entic- the past year. The market share of
The goverament-administerd dicts that it could grow to is 8. 20 sales pitch.
operation that had monopolized percent by 1992.
pressure from Washington. In the alcohol.
.cign cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw
have soared, generating much- courage its
peadod growth for American man-
laws il way dn

human being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan
not os much because of the adver-
manufactur- tising a because they are of better
quality and taste better. American
and bacco and have less tar than Tai-
products theu say wancse cigarettes, which are not

cigarette
their

American cigarettes increased to E vigorously deny there in any-
Department of Agriculture pro- thry have no pians to change
American pressure to open their have they pusbed todo 10, they say.

charge the American companies
tised, altbough it does now,

botly deny.

from 3 percent 5 1986, and the promoting

bleoded.

Tbey are not allowed 9 advertix
9 small stores where cigarettes are
a legislator. tions. Cigurette manulacturér may
to amoke, why zines, cach of whosc arculation iel-
dom excoods 200,000.
young attractive 19-yoar-old girla oent of tbe market Taiwan b
Suuvon short skirts 01 give dut cit posed strict quotas on foreip
and then it becomos a habit. It's cigarettes and imposed rtiff tariffa.

the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials say tbey resent 00 television or in newspapers. Nor
The government agreed to allow markets 10 producta that éndanger They can advertise only through
others into the business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and posiers hung near cigarette racks or
year since stiff restrictions on for. "This really burts our feeling, - sold, u well u through promo-
k American cigarettes la Taiwan II. tbe United Shau-kong Sutes docs not en- also place 120 ads - year in mags-
the Uailod States are way down and femaics are amoking - lot be Before last year, foreign ciga-
and tbe number of anti-imoking CEURC of American ada. E hire rettas accountod for leas than - per-
According 01 U.S. Depart- arettes free in nightclubs. k's vory cigarettes, banned imports at the
met ol Agriculture, people B Tai- difficult for Sunok boys to resist, 70,000 retail outlets licenaed to sell

people

sfacturers at - time when sales in export to LUVANL Younger people

the

immoral."

Aia rerult, imported cigaretie cost