€ RAP
AMERICAN JOURNALOF Public Health
Editorial Volume E Numberd Alfred I MD, MPH
May 1987 Established 1911
EDITOR Less Hazardous Smoking and the Pursult of Satisfaction Cigareites deliver drugs: al rool smoking is drug laking. Screnthe wul has conhrmed nicotine as a powerfully reinforcing psychoactive drug For the consum- ASSISTANT EDITOR er. then; ubra-low-yicld cigarelies raise, the simple issut of Jrug 'culting un ! J. Rothman, DPH adulteration. The unsatinfactoriness of ultra-low Lyeldcigurenes n seen in the in rewy of customers for these pauducts even i healthconxious Californa As nuted by Maron and Fortmann in this issue of the Journal only per cent ul smukery in EOITORIAL BOARD voneyndod based sample smuke cigareties in the ranggol 0 lo 02 mg no une lo Mary F 1 DPH (1987) i "tar Despite the publicay about discase nsks of smuking ind the wwepread Chaiperaon belief that ultra low yield cigarettes are lens hazardous munt smekers = nut - P 1 RN. DPH (1989 the sireet for these cigareties, let alone walk the advenised mule No doubt smokers have routinelymed ultra lom yicld cigareiles L an a Joy o. Dryfoos MA (19es) routinely have rejecied them an Suntjuresun A ma - 0 - mg nuc a tuny Manin u ! no (19es) delivers abat 80 per cent diluting air in each pul taken 14 ufhural smuk ng ma hane Frederick C. Green MD (1988) Those smokers who karn K inchs of compensatory smuking are mure hkely lu Mary Grace Kovar DPH. M3 11988 persist in smoking these cigarelies than are those smukers who do not dev - chop I I HD. MPH (19es) salisfaciory compensation lechniques For ulira low yeld carenes. the main smoking lechniques are bloxking the Jiluting he venis on hiters whhps ur hnger I D Rogers, MD MPH (1987) taking larger puffs, I as Maron and Formann remund 5 simply smoking mune Zena T MA MR (1989) cigarenes per day A smoker self-selection bas icompensators rema un num- Ferande M Trevino. PO MPH (1987) compensators keave) may cause much of the discouraging panern lound in L Experimenul Endrar 1 Recent experments shuw - more encouraging picture Joe I Wray, HD MPH u9en of whal mighi be ganed frum the wwespread use ul ultra low yield Cigaiettes by smokers who refuse to quit Burgout West, et : randomiy assigned 14 muke ly remain wwh their oan brand (average LJ mg nicoline, 14 2 mg € )and 12 umukers STATT lo switch le ue uhra los yeld hrand 01 mg nicoline. 3w "tar , Over 10 Jay uf 1 H McBeach, HD MPH smoking the ultra low yield group had plasma nicotine levels that were unly 40 3 Eserwtive DiveckoriManeging Fahre cent of the OMA brand proup (9 VS 22 ngimil. carbon monos de leveh Jifered by Adrienne > mo of E CEM uo vs 332 ppm) IAlihough nue noted un the Methud, umukers - CIC Publiranwa Dreche explicaly instrucied not to block hher venus IK Wes, Personal Cummuncanunji Deyne Banky Simularly. in the expermental component ul ihen repurt, Benuwits. et a hund Ansistent Manuging i panial compensation in smuk en whe were lorued lux smoke uhra lum MA SE - Marve Barnen Behavioral blux lung of hlier venus as not lorbidden is this Mudy. bul I have been The combined lesson of the cross secimal surveys and the forced : hing 1 and i expenments is thal, if there is lo he maximal progress with the current wyle ultra hre Darkene Dobbs yick cigareile. Ms use Areds lo x encouraged and xre forcelully. (hne ul the ite . ans Proderi dyernising Auuter smokers dun't E up wth uhra low yelds 15 that higher yeld cigareties - only an 5 purchave away Imagine chuxulate hanse las ed wah an 1 chaulate un 4 desen inland suc h candy 1 seem a Ireal but in - : sho ked ipurs wiw the - CONTRIBUTING EDITORS pseudox hocolales would gaiher dus especially a Ihey a à nus cheaper 2 if cigarette manulacturers arer requared E make only - 2 a I cites Barburs Puhk I G Rosenkranta Thrn 1 Nom PhD (guarding against more problematk hlter desgns"). theve cigareties myh 2 1 H i MD, DEPH grealer effect on expesures lo smoke TOKINS thanthey do in the wule upen mas > 2 Noera 1 F Fack as drug conient of medications is sincily regulated su shuuld be Jrug yickld ul cigatene kas Connelky MLS 1 Many smukers would over smuke these carenes. by break ung ull hiter 1 I i blocking vent hules and by smoking grealer numbers per day And sume a -
Irene H. Butier, no (1987)
Julia A. Waller. MD uses reviewed in the curr emi report
Philig G. Weiker MD used)
ENarial unistand discouraged by Jelails of the procedure ty George 1. I JD. MPH ihe more satislying chocolaies
Michele Horion Fubk Hrehh - rhr Las
AJPH Mar 1907, Val 77 No
SOS
2501662717
