HKU2223022
Life Sciences Vol. 15. pp- 1291-1300 Printed in the -
Perganon Press
: OCTAROLISM or RENTO (a)PYRENE BY KICROSOKES FRON TISEUES b PRECOUNT ARD FITAL MAMSTERE Irene T. Manz, Ronald E. Rasmunsen, and T. Timothy Crocker* Cancer Research Institute, Untveraity of California, . Francieco. and Depart- -ent of Community ard mvironmental Medieine, Univeraity of California, Irvine*. (Received in final form 26 August 1974 Summary Pretreatpent of hansters with benzo ta)pyrene (BaP) grestly Incressed the in vitre metaboliam of Par by lung alerosonns fron prognant han- atare, and had I ertect on the metabolim of Fal by iiver etero- somee. the produetion of various metaholiter of Rap by lung niere- sonos un inereaned 3 different extentar 3-hydrexy-BaP (3-CH-BaPi i one : the najor matabolitens the netabolic yielde of 9,10- dihydrodihydroxy-mar (9,10-diol) and 7,8-diol vere Increased tares than that ef E 4,5-diol. In the ehse of liver nterosonee, only the yields of 9,10-diol and 7,8-diol were increseed ovar the contrel levels, The presence of eyclohexene oxide in the incube tion mix- tures decreaned the production of the diole. Damal-level enzyme activities in placental, fetal liver, and fetal akin microsones in metabolizine RP vere very lov. Pretreatnent of pregnant hainatars with RaP indaced Bap-netabolizing enzymes 5 total tisrue 2-3 fold. Banio (alpyrene a ie . carcinogen and anvironmental contaninant that is found in coal tar, nineral oil, car exhaust, tohacc snoke, soke foode, ote. (1). En vitro stadiee shoved that 2 tabolie activation of Rail ie required for ita intaraction with proteins and nuclele aetAs (2,m. Farller studian with rat livar preparations 14,5) and harater liver microsone (6,7) sheund that bar le metahelined mainly 8 phenolie and aihydrodihydroxy (diel) derivatives, and 9 quinomes which : ensymatie OE air oxidation peoducte of unstable phenolie netabolitas (4,5) as well : acase untdentified 1 polar matabel ites, The metabelies et Rail han generally been neamured by the production of 3-hydroxy- Bar (3-ON-MP) vhich is after one of the major netalolites Is vitro 31. 3-0H- DaP ie tosie te evitured celle (0), hut it ahove very 11etle interaction vi th DER in vitro (6) and has not been shown 3 be carcinogenic. Cu the other I K-regton ipoxides ef related polycyelie aronatie hylrocartone (PAR)bind to cell-
1291
