New! Improved! Dangerous?

4MAI More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium, Experts Fear Thxic Reactions

: Lawance LININKR
fratk 1 Tudinghm Pat
huret

much sore cakium than Ee lant of tix a
real enntalant 500 in 400 mtriorams nl the
or course sugne Parduf Weaver fur pen
ple nimet setaing nely 200 in 400 miligrams
dealchars daily the couk tia K use
N. Aul . bt et people verval do pt only der
1 Wand onrun 'ir you don drink
milk, your calcium COIN unption le alant
300 le 400 milig ant a huc hr Rays
Thats rule of thumb people a onk
Wich the comption dileas nex audu de
rescarchere agrée that its salcat act bo 031
ame inc E than . 500 miligrams enlehm
daily, regardless n variations a a orption
I Count up, A a ave Mal NIC
JA fremet sering - 5
Wod anys that ata within die timl h
pariionk to a Par a tax le ait
moliur trans b: got ane endei fin and a
leennge son who alread gets plenty h
der diot of the a à R foor he K
might bay C chan fur titie oc nur E a
confortified mic, eere - and an a hut
bo anasles mill of ou 14 - me
aller forelell a actice un has coutple
bowts 06 ccres a un afterse choct una
could cully be Ketung thousands of no
Rerans ofcakchat
Waod and other reseerchers de autrey
dat an beat so get yourcalchin fire arant
etr of fivods rather than 000 or two heavils
furtified ensex and Uut of kast sours of
should coment faon un and che dairy peod
ucte "IGsturig Wigaver explidus, peo
ple à hans Licen deficient in endcium hunn
lem levar in Ave trit riholavin. vitamle
V and vitamin ix a mailable in milk.
"Dairy was a idix of one sop shupping le

A Calcium-Fortified Day
3/4 cp Rotat onped
is
cup catcunt Hatilyd in a
pp a a fertified Mrute Mald orange hibe
LUNCH
is a
ee han
et Swins dovas
Wundur Engha a Mo
Nutw-Orain bar
30 Allais duckan Lrast
tap upes Semat Courtry Crock Plus Callum
-
baked potate, tappes with
tose Sheass Seread Coustry Rack Pa Galoks
e a
-
- DD
eup Drears Calelum Rip vahila ice cream
. a Me
la

E enklemen recommendation For teenagen le DOET milligrams adelts to ag sn,

mine ral
2,500
at
0001
110
350
30
know
300
120
8
272
107
ISO
130
200
145
51
142
-
26
11
22
212
10
50
162
GOO
260
3.304
407
a

DE foereal with mlH anda das 1.000 milligrams: and aduhs Stglus, 1.200 milignans. Ref with the dovens of
a orange hioe for hersk 64 A enk clure-dortified foods oe the market today, in case to comminur and den
vis Sollowed ly a sanch lus et the milligram a Tulerable Upper Intrke Level set by de National Acalnung at
late altern K M diner some heefor chick Sciennes even on dies of only 000's ralurios Check a the Liluming m -

ochtine amar adkchecse 1
€ und a congle et siggnation topped with
mongrinn, Alluwed is a delly multivits BREAKFAST
min/mineal pill kor nutritional € eurance.
hee while watching AL in the evening a
balfeup (olag, a cap) u ke oreum Sounds
erity reanns alle, right?
Actually, depending on the hrants
danite Juca day naca contid ne Ik Ham-and cheese sandwick
beeen 3,000 and 3300 milligrans Le cald
am * onticantly anre thas the "Tolevable
Upper latake Level" a 2,500 nitilymans set
hy the the National Acadeny et Scienees # NOONBIL SNACK
(NAS). many Roode ure now kertified with
calcium that - has beeome mach a Se bo a
sonte the safety liaalt. Ant that has ne EUR DINNER
irition resender ouncerned.
*As whh anything 1 cas be a 1/2 oup hroocoll, tapped with
peuhlem aye Richard od, chiet of the
Mineral
Fak
Noomilabity Mabontory ar the
leman Nutrition Reseanch Center al 1
University in Boston. The window betwee
minal lotade and the upper Smin a pelr
they renalt - Indend, the -stequate intale EVENING SNACK
paymye by tha NASH 1,000 to 1,31 0 mil
Tyrams day depending on agh, Or dy twice Cost marketed h Gant andSoleny
that yancure and you've reachod the sadety
celing Fue many other eutrients, you'd TOTAL
Rave la hacroane the al legante intake many
Sim hefore maching ridy leyels
What can happes a you take in toe avach
enleitus OVCE time 1 sys there have
beun "on the onder d 30 Cax reports ofcal
cium toukity, whkh can expise kank as le lie a
perhaps kue am a the funclion.

un al Bune Metaboli-e Lab at FURL Gis package of nutrieste de ordes X a

liom, dialies und und thaue Cal Iffation Olhers None thet calefum fortified bols agr She alus queatione the LOND ml mah R - larle mare amee ir your e
The hideyn made a and thaue, "might br are a resaonate option a Carece the come a Nations of rakclum mw - to eren serv 1 to det rakhon bet ma nen resoiriby de .
purt induly winembin," he reemerks, and a Betificution, sins Robert Hranry ea une offital ecreal, VALL an - level ether ubstanns Goome enlriant for de
Thon. too lopercalcemila, a toxiclty et Onuha And unlie Wond, he's not partic N an trondonted evel probably higher Invin Rosenberg director of the Nutri
the wlacnd is caded, can aux 00 vode Mkine utarty concerned about anyoer N 4 de over Chan luany uder cadctum fun uned Rood, Uon Nouse are Conter at Tuta laperticul lurt
hene furmation, partie larbi N peogle whu board "There are lots 2 very I thy people Wenver ha agris reservar tions too, be moverne that a 5 witha led conve entri
have had antone - the part Too - Inxch ml whe on same lots mnre than Ithe) lies he L - u the quaka in the holy fa Hopannge tin ofa single nutric and will tous people intur
an can abo redoce abe urptian of two other claims. Some porations whs depend on a calcium, - due will absorb more calchum a Netlog the X nouring the TH Nes *
6 uttalminerabo trou and re the fatter 4 largedy on din diet, sudh ax comberds : you hare divited dan thrunghont the dag quatet, lun dont gs of the howk of vent.
widch h accomant for wound bealin ag and 3 Alrica and hel Lapps ho lurd reindeer h eyh That's wiry poopk who tahe GUO ling prudeut dictary cholces because jou ve
pha E fie setioning a the isemune guten sorthern Se linav d "lypicaliy let 4,000 milligans' worth 24 ealchum wonlevaents Dicht a tax fin - vils fortified Sodu he
While sach penblems bave been rase unta about which toods the ndineral oncht to 2 comba dent haunwalabaty teating he Totals your bones completely pruterted just he
auw re mperusariet sbelves rabes de Eur intance. Dees ver is SUW les nauket I then the euklan in the rereel # ale dennity is 4 strengthened tot excrden," he
dinst & hris heaming more common ing le un thet contalon 300 mitigrans sorted - welas the enkkura imm For mys MX la wealrnd ino litu vitamin
Not Uhit Wood thinks eakkum-fortified of calcium per halfeup inatead nf d topical every DRE mitioname A ralcium consunind DU which is necesaary ES calclum absorp
fookares had thing T think they re gond 100 mittigrat a pue Heaney a - rin # (the amount le op of mok), the body ab bin and perfaps by too much sodjus and
des, he a you "Avernue I are much RE mixod lochng on the aret fand situs sorbs 100 milligr and or ronghly 30 precent. calicine. Buth abu acuny uur du fuxh the
2 - a a 20 te 20 yrare et averuer Adis Connle Nienves michum lavestiga du abrorgitine tute exe doan, Ir you have h other wenla, as Hung pate a le
only abut 700 millum une of ok cluer a day. toe at Pardue Univernity in Wist Lalayette, (hree to kar eups a anith In one sting un le only ene part et the pur rale Fast he
elarn thy shoukl K convuming 1,000 mil d a late to ane peo a ust thecrouse of I cuntains abunt 000r milligrama cuase you ve lar a homf et Total doean
Teraux And unnen 65 7 older, who ding a us avex de ealciun loeat lota dwiolles to 15 perent Rout 150 a - S
Aboukd he geating 1200 mitigrams, are tak of Eu seul lories Then youre solving oce ligrams, at the une wilh the Total Since
leg in ouly about EU Uot umount in a sin problem while making another onn Iprevs onn srrving mpplice 1.000 namgans. yeu Eating Right evlum a Laarence
hoftre a on fby onder of VERRES YR C unil 1 Dan laghen chief of the Calci in other a unds a net nher bing terribly - in frafth a Niuto

um researcher at Crelichton University in 2 fortification, xthe 6 a manents la certalnir 1

We had . atudy R 3 bewnopanch ande to 0002 milligans ef al un per der un dey are advinel te seallina their two 300 LISH
m. Wund norta Higheskin dite te heve absolutely 50 problem," he says miligram pills 10 different narab

Jamen Flort a mineral researcher at Pur

duend rine balance

Fhr he and others do have SANK suppasinu Heancy denstrated the point when he da priolscat, too thes you dont a haye

- a pkthura 4 cal ciun-lortined Reum adlod to,
mat louner dun de recommentatabes To -
Br dory for men althomch the theer

prodares General Mms. On one land, he cause you fre getting of of cuddunt. A -
Ilut a the odeium W - - me igoer un mineral from the bualy via the urinc.
a a t seh I 160 of thru, Neang and Lindner et a . votive Nor thr nete

all tx hose

of obenityl I