True-ralse Questlons on the Chenistry nnd Psychophyslology. of Odor end Flavor 1. TI Sono modern workors suggest that nocurate mensurent of vlbrattonal frequency (in the far Infrared, for exenple) of an unknown odorant wili permlt prediction of ins quality and intenslty. - No elenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone hos any odor; Instead they react with the mucose forning new products whlch are sme lled; but T Sone odorants have sterle or vlbratlona propertles which force the conc luslon that they are odor less whon they are not. Present evldence strongly suggests thet different parts of the of factory receptor area, Ilke the retina In the eye, are que ilty-spocific. - Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor T No one yet has a firm clue as to the criticol reletion between the molecule no the receptor which permlts an odor perception. T The greater the secretion rate of euco . . or sellve, the hl gher their "Hd and both pli and tomperature influence the quallty of sensation in the 111. - The Ideal Instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sone quantitative range as does an an Ima or human subject. TF Such en Ideat detector has not been developed. Iv. 1 TOTAL IFenn observers with head In fixed position can by virtue of the two Indopondert nostrils easily discern stereo Sall effects, 1.e. they can tell wholier nus odorant ls of the right or left hand, surti 05 orie uses hts two ears In locating the source of a sound. - For certaln musk-like conpounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger 4 hunon olfact ory response. Admptation to one olfactory qun lity does not significant ly reduce sensitivity to any other dissiel lar quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all simllor quelifies. - By employing a similarities nethod of conparing qualities, one con now obtain ldent Ity and degroes of difference without recour se to trouble- vi. - Hunger louers thresholds sllghtly to some food quallt les but not for - It is now possible to Tdentlfy the Intensity and quality of a certain given stimull simply by expert examination of the electrophysiological record taken from approprlate ndor or taste neur rons. T Electrical stimulation of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkaline quality. TF Direct electrical stimuletlon of the olfactory sena has nover yet beon successfully eccompllshed. VII. TF Although total anosala Is rare ln humans and egeusla even rarer, there is evidence that In analogy to color vision deficiences, some people are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities whi lle hoving normal sensitivity to others. TF Toplcal anesthetlcs applied to the tongue abri that alfferent quellties 1F Certaln endocrine diseese entitles make : possible for sone people quite sensitively to "smell" such "odor less' substances 0s sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to noret by eanlpulation of endocrine levels. TF 4 enenopausa wonen at the tlme of ovulation flnd certain odors extreme ly disogreeable whlle at other times In the menstrual cycle these same odon
sone elements possess taste.
II,
sur face In order to be see led.
chemical senses.
v.
5016 words. others.
of taste dit sappear : different rates.
they will Judge quite pleasant.
OVI
