New! Improved! Dangerous?
4PAI More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium, Experts Fear Taric Reactions
de LAFAANCE Lasunk gimata 7 Fadingto Pat A Calcium-Fortifled Day a orange hrior for beraka4. bechtine hamandiche sand- bte alterena. dimer, A and . ed conple lopped with montarine, solunged L a multa BREAKFAST mineral pill be nutritional 3/4e Total parea while AL la the a watching evening min Confirmance Lcop cateumfarted skis balteup (ola, a cap se ke ereus Sounde i appreded Mrete Bala onnge Julde pretry innonale, rigur LUNCH LE 7 à Adually, depending on the 1 dasite, Jue day's Haren conld net mit Ham-and- -cheese sandwick tween 3,000 and 3.500 au Eigrans an cald 2erban the the am sigaticanily sane "Eulevable : Suide choese latake Lever of 2,500 millerans set - Wordu Fagta 2 www the National Arademy of Scienes AFTERNOON SNACK KASS Se many foodiare Pour ketilied de 1Nul-C bar calcium tlat a has beeone mach easier an 40 snet the salety leat Ant that has sene ru DINNER wition reseralers ounoernel 3a skinless chicken Leuant "AN whh anything. - a 1/2 cap hrecol mpper with sagn Richard an 1111ada Semal Courtry Crock Pa Caktum LERIA the commen Ladahly Labomtory the pogi potate, tappes wic - lenan Resesch Center al Tults 1asp Shedfs Seread Pas Galoke L Country 930 University in Boeton. "The wadow between Cruv 2 embit aip letade and the limit gebr. National a der inder remall Indeed, the L'andratende F EVENING SNACK Ajeways thu NAS 11 1,000to 1,300mil les Drear Calelam Rid vation ico cream Egrams lat depending an naw Onla urice cost madetadin Giact andsafeeay that amoent, E you a reachod the salety ociling Fur other eutrienta, Para TOTAL lave et heroane wegate lutake anny de linare hefore levels - machi 1 rialy What can happen you taky in toe much coduin over Lone? sign Owe have "an of 30 cand t boun the corder reporta ofcal glum torkcity, whkh 5 maniles ltarif as a Name thor lixing and molt theue cal purticululy - hr and site . à andera levie pesteps some a thele hanction. the milacrul cated, can MAI a ulaty noermed abovt anyo's S den lurmation perticularly operat peogle a board. dere Jote el very benk bave hada atre in the port Too Danach cald wthe coesume lots mnre than Ithel 2 a R guirka an can alan podoce et other writ andenanter abaurytian twy claima Some ultilainerabe trou and ada the taner a laredy sn e diet, vach an In haren divited doees thrunghout LE conther you a le DE en," Wuni duend pine nedi "we F plethora - cal: aun dortined Beum addod to, - eur a in Nut thit Wood thinks calciumy -fortified ofcalden per inatead lof the Naaa thandling mach louer idum abe reconnendellers Ti LE only L 7u sunatural et coldum a da at Pardue Univerally le Wicet Lalayerte three to Foer when they a "re tetn shoull 8 are curusing A.000 ust the cacise et TH * 31 Jeraun And 2 and wasen to ed
much moes cakium then a buul of the . real contalat 30 la # mtional et de mineral, Or course sn Purdur's Weever, Sur pen niw getsing nel 200 le 400 milleps an 27. calduan daily. coreal Pro stia F une Ad. Mal - Joi do at only that - Cleck men I Wood necure you don't drtnk placa a Essan a caurnar ratea pay pour calium 20 inption olunt le 400 miligrams da gr Fays 1.000 01 a rule a FAIR people shooki and know, 350 30 300 120 Wich the exocption soffeancy, ibough de C rescarchers aurce that it's palcat not th par a any more than 2.500-00€1000 (elri rian dally. n veriations a aheorption . au raten ount up, Woaver "Mahe S Rail ay 272 107 A A ne grangade 300 150 130 Wod any LSat ataylng with dir Und t partinilar concere in household arin by 200 145 mothur trying Ba get mo calcium snrl his son who alreale gets plenty he abocr of the RA 0000 et food lhe cats % L 41 and - Inn calcha fortied lorange al 41 citat 4 sied 1 cereal and an an - a er a Ile nat payant gardes Julee A ann knelell I . I . H I 10 bowle at ecreal an an . achool anad * could I be gening dacumds of Lra 162 Figame a calcha Wood and other researchers abe aumo GOO oge dat an beat 60 pet you calcium frem a rani à at fivedu rather thin coe or two furtifsed ence pref Unl at kast souae Apany of 3.304 1,487 should rame foon mik and other dairy Par 1 a I i a a - 5 ta M * - uers "Ilaturighis. Wewer explun, nbo have been deficient a calcium and u live in mantesinn ribolavin, vitamin - a a A and vilamin D a - availate in nrile "Delry was kdnd nl shupping de - I I Metaball-ar Lab at Tulla, dils package A autresta Zaran I X a des L le ang ocher cadelum furtal lood. tion Jocarch Cester al TULA laparticularly ha norne rese retional too, be concerned that I withal coneentra in the holy's aberption the a a nutrlent intu win ball people sho dep or a neak calcium, alon abeori -are calcitm i thinking Iher 6 nosishi, ag theselves al of hank of the day quated "alon don't get the Heu. I Floet, a mineral researcher at 1ur Far hr andothers 21 huve sontae reservations Hews abinuted the paint when des priste ont tuo thet yrur dont cer Faye proterted Juat be General Mms Che one band. cause you Cre griting - ul calduni. rys adampirate fhat the quklan in the reral . denalt . aba sure ngthenel ly excreise, he "Andir wed ent de liet vitamin TEL every 300 mitimm af ralcium consunt by which is neceary ET caliclum absorp 30 Percent calleta. Boe I ar ces wurk au ftush the Ilut an the coldun in en ar al isors an mineral from the bualy via Le urlac. pets "calet poilk in one Dateg un is only cne et hr sur anys T a I cuase you a bond TUAL doesn - L 2017 aharb seh abust 1GO ef (Ihrm, Haney Nigh Lindner S cenvitier alitor efmr 7h
The caliciam meommendation Sor teenage le 00E maigrams: adells 1a age sn, calkelure fortifint foods 00 the markel today, an case to commte tive douena den 2.500
haut toforresl with mail anda das 1.000 milligrams: pal adults Slelus, 1.200 miligrans. Bet with the of des Sollowed ley sanch J le the anilipam-the Tulerable Upper Intela Lovel set tn the Natkal Aralnry at A4 L au beelor chick Selence even ce diet of only pogri calurios, at Ihe Allumu
= h F 1000 11 - - - . - 4 the 1 ne 1 a 44 and - a a -
Olbern I that calcium-dortifed boodi agares She alua qunatl ne the LOOD pa man = - lade mar dimeuA L ans A a
The indreya euade a ant theue. "might are resonable eptlen "sinor the conorpt luman et rakclum mr an I to every www 2 30 gort cakin bet nut nalnerale reentks, affurtificution Robert Hean eal in rornew ecreal. SELL an exeganive level ether abstannes Grom ral Then, hy percalcenals, as tosidly et Omal And E Wund, he's not partio la ar ampreadontel kwel, produhly higher Inwin Rosenberg director of the Nutri- naid h acersary lor wound bralieg and Eax Africa and Lapps who Lerdreinder F NUN That's wdry poonk who tabe Guo * (Priakar dictary cholces because Jon've besctioning the lemune systein northern Scandin "lypicaliy et 6,000 milipans worth of alcium upplements pheled lone se teo heavily Sortifed Nod4 "ha Sooder area bad thing T think they re 001 100 maligrams, pue remarks ve (the amount le a om et ma). the body a thin- and perfaps he too much sodjun au be www 20 Le 29 years c4t averap Adde Conale Vienver a calchum levesties che ahrorption ea I I you hase A other weda, a showld he getting 1,200 milligms, are tak of bar and calorles. The you fre andving oee Borams, a the sime wilh the Total Since E ooly about EU Unt amount l'sa alm problem whlla making another ann lpree onn arving mpplics 1.AND mingrama, yea Bating Richr columint Laareer boltre more on the conder of F fo sur unil Bese Dewson Haghen, chief of the Calci laoth min yus a met absurbing Aguer Univrait Hralla M Nidril tor Lellen
um researcher Creighton University in 2 fortification, she 00m unenta a certalnir fooda
singhe
56 1 study a pontammagaus.fr www to 000 milipans ed cakem per dy and lee arr a vient to Sus alsn their twa 300 say Hidh-alin diets a have "absolately problem le soy millipam pells et deiferent nals, While sach problems bave bee rare sota about which boods abe ndoeral I to br cunde dent houval lability tealag ar MAL voul bones dinet 23 thele theening IT comme - ine lee aruan thel contalon 300 migrens norbelpet a wellas theenkin in mllk
erusarier boclves rabcs the Pur inntanue. Deeyer's ismer Lor market. do. be suya "Averna letakes are pnis mixed lochno on the juek lood situa porbs 001
oe reitigram theyhly it cuntains 000 minigh LOUR
epp. ube needing case ense caldun teeal loes duicalles 50 15 pernt aboot 130 mi mcan you vecovered all the hoees.
EE dory for men. althomeh abe po for thren lene ed Tobealtyl I
