4/58
Peptide Hormones. Growth Factors. and Soma H (ed): Placenta: Basic Research for Clinacal Application. Int. Conf. on Placenta. Tokyo. "0661 Basel. Karger. "1661 PP 105-114 Isolation of a Xenobiotic Metabolizing Cytochrome P-450 (P-45050K) with No Aromatase Activity from Placental Microsomes of Both Cigarette-Smoking and Yoshio Osawa. Tadayoshi Higashiyama. Kenji Shimizu'. Endocrine Biochemistry Depanment. Medical Foundation of Buffalo Research lostute. Buffalo. N.Y., USA
Placental Proteins
Nonsmoking Mothers Nobutaka Yoshida'
COPY
FILE
The presence of different monooxyBenase activities has been docu- mented in buman placental microsomes. The predominating cytochrome P- 450, that of androgen aromatase, catalyzes the biosynthesis of estrogens (1). Aromatase P-450 bas been tbe object of numerous studies to determine its mechanism of action and to purify it (2, 3). Gough et al. [4) reported the presence of another enzyme system which catalyzes the hydroxylation of xenobiotic substances. It has also been reported that a placenta cytochrome P-450 is responsible for the hydroxylation of benzola)pyrene via aryl hydro- carbon hydroxylase [5-7). The low content of the responding cytochrome P- 450 in human placenta and instability during purification have made it difficult to isolate any other active P-450 enzyme. As a side benefit gained from our procedure to purify and characterize catalytically active aromatase P-450 [3), we found a fraction from the immunoaffinity chromatography which showed a high level of xenobiotic activity with little contaminating aromatase activity. Through the use of conventional purification procedures, we obtained a xenobiotically active P-450 with no aromatase activity. Previous studies on aryl hydrocarbon bydroxylase activity have demon- strated higher levels ofthis activity in amokers but not in nonsmokers (8, 9). Postdoctoral Research Fellows OD leave from tbe Department of Obsteinca and
Gynecology, Okayama Univeraity Medical Scnool. Okayams. Japan
PUBLICATIONS
028242
