-
slu/ri
ATT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira New York Timer Serrier
wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars A made cigarettes last year, ringing became an issue even in receat pack (S2.86) compared with 22
TAIPEI I The Mariboro COW up sales of $119 million. ln '9861 trade E between the United New Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for - boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Suales and Taiwan. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly 81 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigaretie advertis town, His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered A ing in Japan are more liberal. Com- This frenetic, fast-growing DA- cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawed 5 the United Suates in 1971. tioe of nearly 20 million pcople a because both Taivan and Japan school students I 12, 13 years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- Adnooo joy - 'S16 billion trade surplus with than the health- -warning labels brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $1 billion in new sales. the United States. But those people mandaled in the United States. Wacturers have essentially intro la Japan, which has a population are just like robbers II you are A Tbe oompanies aay Amencan
and dod-pus-wou stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest. gaitar-playing. pep-sural promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted
panies can advertise or TV after
our this city, next to posters % E peroent. of Winston cigarettes. amoked 34 billion year = and for the CRANSE time, - aubstantial number of them were liamsoo made 19 America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to paonp cigarette advertising to the smoke 300 billion ialand, and that has created a furor. Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled tbe American ing teen-agers 01 take da moking. more than 10 percent last botly deny. operation that had monopolized percent by 1992. proseure from W ashington. ln the alcohol. s cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw ufacturers at - time when sales in laws = way up.
"They amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting out cigarettes and gifu," an aggressive campaign Television
er
for
prod
most of the growth in American La said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out last dropped long-sianding restrictions. L are DOW smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry label that, 6 the Brown & Wil- rette companies promote eigareties toughly translated, says, "For the
Corp. exports of like that? I's of 120 million and where people a cigarettes year ir that. American the past year. The market share % %
have O.K. 6 them
sake o. health, doa't smoke loo the whole markets. We en much" = - warning much milder "uru LE human being, you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan not so much because of the adver. tising as bocause they are of better there la any quality and taste better American thing 3uoin with % way they are cigarettes are made of blended to- wancse cigarettes,
Ammadrones
cigarette manufactur- Tbey are not allowed 9 advertise . small stores where cigarettes are tions. Cigarette manulacturers may dom excooda 200,000. Before last yoar, lorcign € girla oent ol tbe market Taiwan
companies of entic American cigarettes increased to a vigorously - The sovermen-administerd dicts that it could grow to 15 to 20 sales pitch.
- charge 2 American companies frons a percent 5 1986, the promoting their producta and 14 bacco and have less which tar than Tai-
are not
Department of Agriculture oud ihry have no pians to change thei bleoded. American pressure 5E open their have they pusbed a do so, they say.
a cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials tbey resent 00 television or in newspapers. Nor The government agreed to allow markets to producta that endanger They can advertise only througb others into the business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and posiers hung near cigarette racks or year since still restrictions oc for- "This really burts our feelings, sold, as well as through promo- a American cigarettes UT Taiwan A., tbe United Shau-kong Sustes doca legislator. not en alao place 120 E - year in maga have soared, generating much- courage its people to amoke, why zines, cach ol whose droulation acl- and tbe number ol anti-smoking causc of American ada. They hire rettos accouated for leas than - According to U.S. Depart- arettes froe in nightclube k's a cigarettes, banned imports at medt ol Agriculture, people B Tai- difficult lor Sunak boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed to sell
tised, altbough it does now.
a
peadod growth lor American man- export to Taiwan? Younger the Unitod States are way down and females are amoking -
Parce Po-risk-61
young attractive immora). .
gé IDE
the
wearing short skirts 6. give t cit posed strict quotas 3 and then it becomos a habit. It's cigaretter and inposed stif tarifls
Ain rerult, imported ciparette cost
