NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A to campaign woo Da de County teenagers away from imoking la under way bere as part of a natlon-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groupe, the society hopes 9 persuade a large pro- portion of the nation - young people that amoking may Jead Key wrapn la the . E palgn, la a flim strip detalling thr ras against tobacen, It han already I shewn le wsenth graders in 13 schools Jo educatlenal telesinien, Bnd will 1 breadeat to min Kradn arlence students a the apring. The seventh-grade directed b teacher Rill program, inchuded a panel discussion tn which students directed ques- tiona at Dr. Francis N. Cooke, representing the society. "Teachers I have talked to agree that although amoking la not a serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu- dents are approaching the age when the problem will be faced," Erene said: a value . a nimstrips a E 16 glves studenta f logkal argument with whleh ithey eenld retuee te L 1 when Pnreuraged in : alrele et triende, be ader A Nm atrip le also being alim "live lo senior bis L achools la the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October '6 096t
Education
Youth Habits
Cuts Fag
American eigaret moking can be reduced % per cent through a teenage education program . the high schools. These statistics were presenled Saturday a Walter G. I director of public education for the American Cancer Society, here for the Florida Division, ACS, annual meeting I said the I I program was directed at leensiers as a - fer "eurbing eancer becsme a the s,4pos eenjetion that staoking ie a € ol fatal I a prospects of reducing cigaret moking beb one-fih were abonn in a pilol program conducted with 22,000 high I atudents ee Purtland, Ore., I 1 I dis à Soidents T I I we mod lukely la ed Smoking increased in % successive high school grades. Among boys participating a the Oregon aurvey, 143 pes cent payous as freshmen, 15.2 a cent as sopbemores, 3LI & eent a juniars, - 35.6 H seniors. A correspond- ing ligures for girl stodents were 4.8 per A 10.6 per cent, - or the students. 25.8 per cent et the boys smoked regularty at least enre a ! u PP 11.6 per I of the girle 4. Education programs againat smoking reduced the mumber ol 1 amokers I boys from 13 cent to 1.7 & cent, and beginning girl mokers from L PROGRAM EFFECTIVE I mid Che figures projected I . four-Jear perie indicaled that & per eent P high sehool I could 4 deterred from amoking through tbe ACS educational program A stody. le i peraal that the moet diactive leaving the decision s I + a Least ellective, he related was the I instructke not la 1 Aa part el ib anti-emoking aducation prograts. a ACS E deviaed 1 Ain strip I affecta A a I for ecreming Ln
to cancer.
at the Lago. Mar Hotel cancer. I . aname
Evans,
a dgaret pabit 2 E per cent and % per rent.
*
per cent
approach - in
F leng term Allect e I
- achool clasarooms BILL, MULLEN 0/002686
