SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
In a cross-sectional investigation in one building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validated complaina associaied with the "sick building syndrome questionnaire. The symptoms were more common . build- were measured on e linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and Ar the same time, the micro-environment (environmental humidification. imespective of the as of the buildings. A characteristics 5 the breathing zone rather than area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air samples) I characierized by measung 'ammadus quality parameters was not described. Skov et al. (1967) ex- relarive humidiry, respirable suspended perticulas CEF- amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern I bon dioxide, noise level, lighting insensiry, relacive a town halb and 11 older control buildings. A kevel ol symp midiry, and airflow. No relationship I seen benwern I : related 01 - "Aeecing" factor (carpets, upholstery. the degree of symptoms and age, educacion. or duration and horizontal surfaces) ad the "macro-molecular compo of employment ar the building or time spent S dhr budld- nent" of dust. They also demonstrated a relationship berween Shn on a daily basis. Staristically, complaine were the pumber of houn spent photocopying and using carbonles significanty more frequent among Supous I Envi- copy paper and tbe level of complaints. Ocher studies have rommental characteristics associased 1 d increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985) complaint levels in this group included decreesed airflow and prychodynamic factors (Rowand et al. 1984) cootribute models, there a an association benveen respirable as- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome by I pended particulases and the levels of boch mucous I suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertaon et brane and systemic complaints Satisfaction wish the F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. I environment e predicted by percepcion of dreft ferences la the concentrations of eaviroamental pollatats inaensity I also associeted I complaints. non strate a relationship between symptoms and both area I of dhe sick building syndrome should examine ples measuring dust and a "macro-molecular" fraction, a
- E
velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended par a indoor air quality complaints.
riculates and dry-bulb semperature. In 1 did nor clearty contribute a she degree of sympton although regression models PIP suggest dhar compl were nor independent of thermal parameners.
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual berween rooms in a mechanically and a naturally veutileted building. They studied the rooms with the I comp I and used area samples. Skov et a (1967) & des Area samples in buildings may not be representative of the exposures in different points in I rooms. Physical characteristics such as windows and partitions, computers, and shelving may infuence air currents. Radian heat may
mulale exposures simultancously I 1 prycho in area I social meares or identify predictors of complaints in
indoor spaces. INTRODUCTION
Complaints termed the E building syndrome" bave kad ol uneven distribution of pollutats. Finally. moet - led to numerous investigations in the last 15 1 They are hutants resuh from point sources, or they will be diluted a thought to occur primarily . newty constructed oftice 1 subject . farther removed from the source. The micro A E and, at kast in the past, were thought to be due to virooment around desks and within cubicles may have very inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelen. - different exposure characteristics than tbe macro-enviroe wide variety of causes have been identifed in specife I meat of a building In addition. all applied occupational and inctuding inadequate temperature and relative I 8 environmental bealth research that attempu oi relate dose or trol. noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds beakb effects suffers from the problem that dose a penerally and formaldehyde. microorpanisms, environmental tobecco measured at several points in time and then extrapolated 8 smoke, pesticides. f entrainment of vehicle exhaost or allow developmem of exposure classifications over decades spent I contaminated air and boiler fumes. foers released à most health effects are measured as a I 1 of from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of I A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnepan where the level of symptoms Aeu change not merely trom et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri- day os day but from hour to hour, 1 a stratepy must 5 (Robertson et al. 1985) a unable to identify difierences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the micro wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperarure (temper- environment and set these characteristics a relacion os the ature). relative humidity. air velocity. formaidehyde. or pos- kevel of individual complaints at a pven point . I This itive or nepative ons between several rooms . a building report presents results of a CTORS sectional investigation ol a with patural and a building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using a self-administered, linear I where both a of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom i I a Amotant Profenor of Medicine L of ladustrial and Environmental Heakh Scaences at the Univeruty of Pitaburgh Schook of Medicine and Publec Heahh. a I a Director. Enviroomental Heah and Safery. Camepe-Mellon Univeruty, Pirtsburgh. A
(Kreiss and Hodpon 1984; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986). marily os mechanical ventilation The same poup ol authors
results in preater than the difference in average samples, an No investigations in the peer-reviewed titersture have
3C51
