Polluted Data
by SamuelS. Epstein The autur survevs the record of industri-generated data Emalang a wlen - shons 2 Lonstrans 091 daia- frem Khass wabapru - bused merpretetion, ma mpulan suppressa and a la puright de- MI 1H - commplat e. esper iallv when prohtable tev hmalugirs are malsed Alarmmgh. MNh C adenu a INH jusahrs strong reservations 35 01 thr salulu of am data deseloped hs institunons or indes uluals whinr euonam intetests are dueith or Information as thr runen of et onumk and pulan. al pimer Deuse-making at all lesels of gm. erment waldnand thr av anlalaty of a buads of in lurmation, ou the husn ol w hik h the relatise merits al akernat puln 6 an 1 I ed and unsidered. If thin mlan natumm nt data base is 3 nashetl or inal- ul. then whatese der num JTE trau hed sausi alsole supres sur malul. threateng the laben of demu The us 1 whr -hmng ladli, est all beneb and us dala. an whw h naa tegulatur des ISIANTIS are based. unar frem ilu melusi 1es themehes bemg iegulat ed Ihr data are eithet generated and mter preted INH and unners under tone a le mdustis A Hat and val- onu pressurs
melnes th alle ted
(131 sur rinnent
Du - N -
Bunh inte this premes 1 atadre of tonsultanis, maituies, whese dueis of appr.n al pruni ides the h identiturs of these consultata are often hidden new
In m-hann 4 aratatu stall 4H In temmete ul labxit. generall from presigun unnerues or reseath In-houv wentin sull JUE not mmune to ush data mah an addutimal manle et auther it Thr and desebapment and markeng departments. AD onh from thr puhlu but alu ftom ther nhil unn : HHI le hunis thrat prudu nt prin est mtn an sin at insutenn Thr mulunal merrsts et theve neise Induserul mmat 1 di . usnall JI anded se- sumsultants ate enhet net divled to the agen ies neth In smine = a Labwn atuurs and unn enutin. ne 15 hum attuury and PNPEII cummitiees thes su. walen 1 lus ng his lern salu ned an the uprn n I des lass d JIS usually mamt. paur n contident sonit. 1 ts - not unumus to unguiken praur Canstants 11 thr Cirmatum à Dele and 1111 planlu mfee matun DI met pretan 1hr nust LEMIUM problem hnh undustrully grn ansistem hab wha JIE prisenred as thr mitests el etated data a av pan qualus Deeph an emed In mallin PSTI theugh thr limmed thr marlean d dau sulumalled in 1967 te the privpan a mete hkels to refiret sheel e' m 1ath- Tinni and Ihug Admann atenn FUA) In mdusin Samm . Fris . rul den d th whattel andra panm lewarl additive petann at igmall submel le thr
net
from teseare
ansistent wath etha the
at . les as hnter in diav n ftam the held al IX mputal and emarommental s.an et
mailet 4 pla IR . hardl utampentne 44pmalasi thr irinal nng
hles Lat's lenil
Ihe un Le tes rager len the I ed funne en than kn x Lei = mteie : and salues lul 1 : al Fe f el 1 ileud wne ee 18. Foul and nim Medual - as Aune Ar 5 il. surta 1 Pas F al t-Mah hn 1u I' d-hmating An 1 lt
un taldens al lenul addane petitins then (amm sinne Healwal Les amplamed Alun hall al the Admmettungs huse hern in a pleir a have mal alerately paralles, she iegula aal thr arte have
- Ding lurihr Tine leparstr.l
a
subv teapmed
