I I Dis Vol. 38. No. - PP 17-26. 1985
Printed in Great Britain. All rights reserved

0021-9681 85 $3.00 0.00
Copyright C 1981 Pergamon Press Lid

PSYCHOSOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ADOLESCENT
SMOKERS BEFORE THEY STARTED SMOKING:
EVIDENCE OF SELF-SELECTION
A PROSPECTIVE STUDY
CARL C. SELTZER and FRANK W. OECHSLI
Peabody Museum. Harvard L'niversity Cambridge. MA 02138 and the Child Health and
Developmeat Studics, School of Public Health. University of California. Berkcley.

CA 94720, U.S.A.
(Recrired in rerised form 17 dagust 1984)

Abstract -Evidence of noncomparability of sell-formed smoker and nonsmoker groups of
adolescents from the Child Health and Development Studies of the University of Califomia,
Berkeley. wa1 found in a study of antecedent psychosocial characteristics (observed at age loi
before the adoption of the smoking habit. With possible confounding factors controlled, eventual
smokers showed significantly greater prevalence than nonsmokers of Type A personality traits.
eutraversion. psychoticism. anger. and restless sleep. Eventual smokers were lower in socio-
economic status than nonsmokers. and alun eshibited significantly lower men scores for the
Raven Progressive Matrices and Peabody Picture Vocabulary tests For each trait. the trends of
the data were consistent in boys and girls Since many of these traits are shown to "track into
adult lile. where they are then related to coronary heart disease. the role of self-sclection requires
further consideration in causal inferences about smoking and coronary heart discase.

INTRODUCTION

IN RECENT years, many published studies have shown an association that suggests a role
for psychosocial factors in the pathogenesis of CHD [I. 2] In the Framingham Study.
univariate and multivariate analyses showed a positive relationship of certain psycho-
social factors to CHD and also to cigurette smoking [3-5). The pervasive question of
temporal precedence and a priori sell-selection still requires further clarification. however.
In the absence of controiled experiments. the effects of cigarette smoking on health have
been inferred from observational studies that compare persons who smoke with
nonsmokers. in these comparisons. the disease outcomes are assumed to occur in cohorts
of smokers and nonsmokers who were initially similar in all relevant characteristics except
for the difference in smoking habit. Very little evidence has been available. however. to
The unique data of the Child Health and Development Studies (CHDS) of the
University of Califomia. Berkeley. provide an opportunity 01 check this assumption by
examining antecedent characteristics associated with teenage smoking [6-8]. The CHDS
is a prospective investigation of children from birth to late adolescence At various stages
of their development, the children were examined as 01 their biological, social. and
In this report. we have analyzed the antecedent psychosocial characteristics of a large
cohort of boys and girls before some of them later began cigarette smoking as teenagers
Reprint requests should be addressed to: Frank W. Oechsli, Child Health and Development Studies,
This project was supported be Grant 1447 from the Peabody Museum. Hanard Lniversity

-

verify this assumption.

personality status, as well as environmental and familial infuences.

2131 University Ave. Berkelev, CA 94704, U.S.A.

8 38/1-

LE