LOS ANGPIES TI-ES Los Angoles, California October 20, 1054 E been proved. lale
hauel uudn thr premise that hination n' a partirular type a anertion hetween riea in each nf he Three categories Tri smoking and disease 2 has alrcady produced a sale Might Take Six Months one 11 is. so all can be made Dr. E. Cuyler Hammond, that way, Ifnot. the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Carence Cook T.itte, complete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad- date, said that "some say we sisnry bnard and scient fie di- tive evidence before develop try Research Committee. de- ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would nne has said just what the de produre some ni The Aefni finitive et idence wauld be." iive evidence' in which Dr He sand he "took issue' with Hammond referred. In his Talk 1n the Ameriran "We wiil larkle
JI S cigarette. scientific re- search should prove which should find one, "since peo- ple like to smoke cigarettes." rector of the Tonarro Indus. seribed 11 nutlines nf sind- Tackle Unknewns
Calls Safe Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming
Expert for
L'niversity atatistician should wait for
more defini
NEW YORK. Ort, 61 ALPI this virwnoint.
The midenre connecting cig- Canerr Sneiety meeting. Dr eously mans of the unknowns simultan arette smoking with hoth Hammond said the relation- la this feld of tobaccn 11se ur lung cancer and heart dis. ship nl rigare:te smoking to relation to human health, a ease is "ourrw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We scek definitive onee about developing "a safe health, than the relationship findings in an area where cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer 1 program to murh suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find "a aafe eigarette from been done. The program of meeting of the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recognizes that wre Tobacco Industry Research tobacen, ihere are varinus relationshr hetween er.1 rom. Committee anancenced some oftypes of fiters, and there are mental factors, including the details nf :ts seientific re- arinua teehniques > euring The most important
system was more important, line of the industrv's researels migh: prove surcessfal in sux do not have today 1he experi months, with luck," he said menta! evidenre that : nr-
Cancer Society today. At the same time the scien- tific advisory board of the srarch program w a et is he that
Outlines Described There are various types C tobarcn, he Raid, and it may some fortuitors rom- SOT ANGELES EXAMINER los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
mit scientific conclasions PA. garding the and efert rause amnkine and lune cancer nrocet et un was a direr and C current lung cancer rase: J 10 medical centers 111 the - . ed States and Canada,
It will inelude numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokers, as well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. The apecitie research grants, financed Aq the TIRC, seill be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY ON TOBACCO YORK, Oct. 19. $ < broad abx point study seek Ing knowledge whether eigarets or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards wa announced today. It is the first announcement of a big research proxram headed Aq the selentifle ad- visory board of the Tobacco In dustry Rese reh Committee
NEW
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
