RAP

MERICAN JOURNAL OF
Public
Health

Editorial
Volume 77, Number *
AMred I MD. MPH

May 1987 Eatablished 1911

EDITOR Less Hazardous Smoking and the Pursult of Satistaction
Cigarettes deliver drugs: al rool smoking is drug laking Scentahe wurk has
confirmed nicotine as a powertully reinforcing. psychoac tive drug Fol the consum-
ASSISTANT EDITO er. then, ulra low-yield cigarelles raise the simple issue ul Jrug cuttang ar
I J. I DPH adulteration. The unsainfactoriness of Tultra low yeldigarenes in sen mahe a a ay
of customers for these peuducts even in health conse aus Californa As nuted Aq
Maron and Fortmann in this issue of the Journal, only - N pr sent el MINDALS in -
EDITORIAL BOARD population based sample smuke cigareties in the rangeol 0 lu mg nn sur a
Mary F. 1 DPH (1961) 2mg "lar Despie the publicay about discase nsks of smuking and the wadere E
Chareraon beliel that ultra lore pun4 cigarelles are kss hazardous must smokers will nul cass
Doris 1 RN DPH (1989 the sireel for these cigareties, ket alone walk the advenised male
No doubi smokers have routinelyme ulura lor yel la rearciles and ast av
Joy d Dryfoos: MA (1985) routinely have rejecied ihem an unsatisfying A ma 11 - mg nacutin - 11
Martin S. Favero. no (1988 delivers I 80 per sen diluting air in terh put 1 en by ofhaal mol ang ma tane
Frederich C. Green MD (1968 Those smokers -ho karn the ir of compensater) smuking are mue bkely lu
Mary Grace Kewar. DePH. MS (1988 persist in smoking these ciparelles than are those smukers whe do not de relop
satisfactory compensation ieu hniques Far ulura low yeld cigares. the main
amoking les hniques are Nux kang the diluting ar venis on hitrs wwh lips or hnger
Kenneth a Rogers, MD MPH LISET taking larger puffs, and, as Maron and Forsman remund us simply smak ung Pune
Zena I MA MB (1989) cigarentes per day A smeker sel selection beas icompensators remain nim
Fenunde 11 Trevine, PhD. MPH (1987) compensators kave) may Cause much of the discouraging panern Foun in and
Exprimenul Eradrar . Receni eapenmenis shuw - more rne ouraging pis fure
I Devid Wray, MD, MPH (196 of whal might be ganed from the waspread use of ultra lexe yick arai elic by
amokers - refuse to quit Sursows West. et al randomiy asagneu 14 smacis lu
remain wwh their 0-n brand (average - 2 micoline, 14
ATAIT le switch le ue uhra low yeld brand 01 mg nacotine
Willam H. MeBeash, MD MPH amoking the altra low yield proup had plasma micoline levels that were usnin der 24
Eseretive DeverliManmarn Eahrer cent of the own brand group 19 4 V1 27 & ngimil carbon monox ude le vels diflered by
Adrienne , P 30 per seet uo - 1 J3 2 ppm) IAlihough no noted an thr Mrihal
P-Min ranki Dareen eaplicaly instrucied not to block biser VENIS IK West. Personal Cummun aliunji
Doyne Banky Simalarly, in the expenmental component ul their repurt. Benuen et 1 fanind
Aaaintent Manners i panial compensation in smukers who were lorued le smoat vira los P E Clere ue:
Marva Baren (Behavioral bloc king of hlier vent : not (orbidden in this Mudy. bui I hann been
Ediarial A anislen discouraged by delails of the procedure "
The combuned lesson of the cross sectunal surveys and the forced seris hing
Prider Tana € expenments is € à Titre is lo be ma umal progress with the cument style ultra lare
I Dobbs yield cigareile as use Ards lo be ene ouraged mure forc celully Che ul the is anales
Prinder I Adrernaing Auturat smokers dun't put up - ulua lus yelds as that higher yeld cigareues are cal an
easy purchave a-ay Imagine bix dute kner las ed wath en L Net 4 due an 4
desen island such, Candy maghi sem ireal bul in well stik brd candy 444 the s Total
CONTRI BUTING EDITORS pseuloc hex olates would gather dust eapecially d Ihey were nue
- Aanas JD, MPH ihe more satislying hocolales.
cigareite manulacturers were requared lu 1 only F
I Heeh Thr - New (guarding against more problemate hiser dengni"). these cigaretie mghi Na -
1 H Tahon. MD, De grealer eflect on expesures lo smoke toxins than they du in the wale upen mut  Jus
Noera I abr Firle as drug conient of medications is stncily regulated su should be Jrug vark of igatene
Jena I E amoke Many smukers would over smoke ihex cigaren by break Bun ul blic a
I i blocking vent i and by amoking grealer mumbers per day And sume smos a

lrene H. Burler, P-D (1967)
Jean I MD MPH (1985)
Philip d Weiler MD (I9E

Julis A Walks MD 16061) reviewed in the curreni report

tar act 12 smuh :
lan a Oner ie day ul
an tie

Michele Horte
Genz 1 : ar F
Barbars G Rosenk I PhD
5 Mey 1907, Val 77. No.

heape than
Laretics

ir

530

2501662717