HKE2228112
SASTA BANBARA SAN14

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO

.
- 2
14PARTMI / - autol:
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willian H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Research rourdation
715 Muir Lands Visto Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. Fishan:
and Salk.

a

1A tue un 1.N14 :

We are looking fonnrd to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolla rescarch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founcation and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzyaes
should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSO but also at Scripps
The establisment of a focal center for rcsearch proorams on oncodevelopmental
prublems is parti:ularly ieely. It will be ol grat potential importance for
pulling tcgetter work, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation,
character iztaion and doternination of the significance of huran oncodevelopmental
antigens such as alphafeteprotein and carcinousbryonic ant igens.
One of the goals of the work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship
of increased serura concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinogen
exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systers clearly derion-
strate tnet anirals pasodko to hejatocarcinouens have clevated serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developrant of malionant tuncrs. It is hoped that systerrtic
study of hean scra frull differert aurces vill determing if serus AFF concun-
In addition. the role of env rumestal factors such as hormonal influences on
the production of oncodevelouent.ul gene pry-lu,ts can be further explored in
different sy:toas. Such data iexlics that (he prod:ution of oicocavelopmental
gene product, by tunor cells is net a fixed property of A givon tumor but is
He look forrard to working with you and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the important subjer of oncodeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinosen exposure.

subject to environmertal controls.

expression.
Best regards,
Stewart Sell, N.D.
Professor
SS/nb