BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
a
Area stores
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For tha Delly Camera nors. kids. ker,
referring to the Increased enforce- were issued a summons- penalty for selling tobacco to. a m pour to ain.Anq cigaretles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busl-" Store clerks unlucky enougb.to doun on selling cigarettes 01 ml- hanarga appoar ur court. The maximum The sting. conducted on the eve horis a 0025 fine of the American Cancer Soclety's The Suna involved two tcams. Great American Smokeout. was In- Each included u uniformed omcer. tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain clothes. omcer. and two legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High Schoolgirts, Who Police targeted gas stations, con: girls' parenis signed as walver al- venience, drug, grocery and dis. lowing them to talce part uj the.op: "law has neverteeri enforced, said The Juvenlles waro told not to Boulder Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "We're letting the stores know had 6 show identification.
_nesses this week during a crack.
"Couri stores. Until recently, the eratlon. this ic going to happen, ahc sald,
the cigarettes. and, if asked, they (Sce DOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores ' for cigarette sales to minors At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry 28uh SL, one of the girls asked when she was isted - jum the cashler for a pack of Marl ous-aur cald Obe was a stu- boro Lights. Omcer Rob Hauke- dent and couldn't puore un ness, In plaln dothes, po019 "L court Costs. HAlikeness pou) to "Ine hetnd her to witnese thç pionuos hor, saying she could- A placard near the cash regis. the Distriet Attorney to do cam a ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity acrvice Instradof paying clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clorks, not the store own- cation. The buyer produced her ers or manugers, have to pay the she wAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it to usiund cd at the license, sel it down on stores or clerks, she said. "Al-: the counter, and sold her the though, when you 000 clerks ciy: Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Police targeted 15: up and identified him Lotoros and cler 1 al all bur four "When I see them ask for an year. Tha first sting, conducted. sting E I think they're going to re- 51 Soptember, targeted 16 stores: fuse the cale, Haukeness sald. und ST clerks received sum
(From Page (JT
The clerk at Colony Market.
transaction.
prububly work out a deal-with-
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the nne, drlver's license, which showed court costs.
cigarettes. stepped summons.
ing, you might think otherwise. . recelved summonses. punas tobacco sale monses.
as a police officer. Manka came In and wrote the clerk a Thie wook'a "But they never do."
operation was the. this :
