LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday : March 20, 1977
ALLOOK AFTESTS
To judge by thetorrent of protést a a received. a sizable por tion of the. calorie-counting puclic agrees Long accustomed to a cross firg A, criticism from industry and consumer activists, the FDA has been by citizen demands 3 liber ate saccharin And moves are afoot 5 Cangress a amend the. Food. and There S been 2 opuat cut from all: aver the country, # EDA pokesman la Washington said: A W e've ranges from anguish to anger: never been this busy. The FDA: for its part: says it was only doing what the law required. the ATPoppeds-ati the Dela- the F - clause Congress inserted.in od and Drug Act im 1958 says that:1 a (POOT): additive shall be deemed to A safe E: it is found after tests witch are losde priate for the evaiua - of food additives: a tion the salethaf ar de a clause does not allaw fora bai the: ban tar be: based on : reduire- eyldence afcancer in human
The Bancon Saccharin: How Why BOBEF GT Ttmes - end wre Dces it make nse to ban a popular food additive on be strength of what happens when hundred rats and E eat a additive im odfsprings EXE doses? The Calorie Coatral Council Trc. Ananta thinks not. The trade argani- catim, whose $ 0,000 annual budgat. comes trom manufacturers oi dietary of dallars in thelast few days for fuil. le beratirig 5. Food and Drug Ad- : istration for its decision 6 ban sacabarin. the oniy nonnutritive- sweetener currently on the matket. Even the 1a F is willing 8 admit there's a basic diference between 4 rats and humar L" one a ad in the TEAL Street Joarnal: observed. "It's. 1 another PT mpie of the arbit mature oi big guremmen
E A as the logic a law may saem to the general public, medical searchers say. that the animal A eriments upancwhich such h-maazaz do a decisions are based have sen sibler rationale - that they do bavé a direct-bearing on risk 8 bu- mans. true, researd ers synr ackmowledge hat the rats "at the center of this fur ore consumed each day the saccharin - equiralent of rcughly 1,000 cans of lowicalorie soit drink But they: con- sidèr it not dishonest to misleading-i as the calorie councl bas, suggest. F the B that disparity makes researd tirelevant to humans. Le a People who drink oniy one can br - a saccharin soft drink run a a "comparably lower risk of cancer. But B' a ai 213 million population people, . en collective bazard cauld still add thousand cases of blad - upto several * : P.tu. dercancer: foreover, scientists note, rat - I de T
bésteged Drug CLA )
-
a
food and drink, bas spent thousands k biduce cancer in man or animal" age newspaper ads acoss the coun - a ancing of risemd benefit. Nar does it
7035437
0087432
TIMN
