BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
A a -
Area stores
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For tha Delly Camera nors. kids. kr,
referring to the increased enforce- penally ToF selling tobaccotoa me tried W buy Whe cigarelles. The
mont.
Doulder police stung 11 bust- Store clerks uulucky OFQ8HOU3 nesses this week during a crack. gel'caugnt were issued asummons- down on selling cigarettes to ml to appoar la court. 1 The maximum The sting. conducted on the eve horis DOZS.E line of- the American Cancer Soclety's The vung involved two toams. Great American Smnokeout. was In- Each included u uniformed omcer. tended to educate cierks that it's il- a pigin clothes omcer. and two legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School girts, Who Police targeted gas stations, con giris' parenis signed a waiver al. vénience, drug, grocery and dis- lowing themla al partin thc.op law has never been enforced, said The juvenlles wero told not to Jopmnog Poliec OMicer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell We're lerting the stores know had to show identification.
count slores. Unul recently, the eration. this is going to happen, ahc sald,
the cigarettes. and, if asked, they (Gee BOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores :
. :
for
sales
cigarette (From Page OI
to minors The clerk at Colony Market,.
At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began to. cr 28uh SL, one of tho girls asked when she WAS Astied sum-. the cashlar for a pack of Mart mont, ous caid - was a stur: e boro Lights., omcer Rob Hauke- dent and couldn't pOEE thie ness, In plain clothes, stood In court costs. HAukeness pot1 0 iina-hehind her to witnese thc 6oAgole her, saying she could:" A placard near the cath regis. the Distriet Attorney to do cam 2. ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice instcadiol paying No 'af No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, clerk asked to see some identifi- The clorka, not the store The buyer produced lier ers or aanugers, have to pay the driver's license. which showed court coste. sha WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it to od at the license, sct it down on stores or clerks, she said. punish. and sold her the though, when you see clerks After they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted 15: stepped dn and identified him alorcs and cles ks aLHilbur four self as a police offcer. Manka recelved summonses. came in and wrote the clerk a Thie wock's I bee them ask for an year. Tha Arst sting, conducted E I think they're going to 2 in Scptember, targeted 16 stores: fuse the cale," Haukeness sald. and ST clerks received Rum:
transaction. cation. counter. the cigarettes. summons "When "But they never do."
prububly work out a dealwith-
- owne, "Al:
ing, you inight think otherwise. ciyc" operation was the. punaas tobacco sale stine Has
monses.
