MA

CELL REGULATION, Vol. 2, 373-381, May 1991

Activation of muscarinio acetylcholine receptors
inhibits cell cycle progression of small cell

lung carcinoma

Carol L Williams and Vanda A. Lennon
Departments of Laboratory Medicine
and Pathology, Immunology, and Neurology
Mayo Clinic and Foundation
Rochester. Minnesota 55905

model for studying the dysregulation of cell cy-
cle progression. This highly metastatic tumor
accounts for 25-30% of all lung cancers and
causes A 25 000 deaths annually in the United
States (Birrer and Minna, 1989). SCLC cells ex-
press receptors for several autocrine growth
factors. including gastrin-releasing peptide
(GRP, homologous to amphibian bombesin)
(Cuttitta et al., 1985; Carney et al., 1987), insulin-
Nakanishi et al., 1988b), and a transferrin-like
molecule (Nakanishi et al., 1988a; Vostrejs et
erates different intracellular second messen-
gers, which must converge on a common point
In addition to receptors for peptide growth
factors, some SCLC cell lines express musca-
rinic (Sorenson et al., 1983; Cunningham et al.,
1985; Williams and Lennon, 1990a) and nicotinic
acetylcholine receptors (Maneckjee and Minna,
1990). The ability of acetylcholine receptors to
recognized (Conklin et al., 1988; Ashkenazi et
al., 1989; Maneckjee and Minna, 1990). Based
on our finding that activation of M, muscarinic
acetylcholine receptors (mAChR) causes
drolysis of phosphoinositides (PI) and inhibits
voltage-gated Ca?* channel activity in SCLC
cells, we proposed that MAChR activation may
affect SCLC proliferation (Williams and Lennon,
1990a). We report here that MAChR activation
inhibits DNA synthesis induced by serum, bom-
besin, insulin, or IGF-I in SCLC cells. MAChR
agonists arrest SCLC cells in both S and G,/M
phases of the cell cycle. mAChR activation ap-
pears to disrupt a common event induced by
transduction by growth factor receptors
mACh8 activation decreases DNA synthesis
Carbachol decreases PH-thymidine uptake by
cells cultured in serum (Figure 1). This inhibition

We previoush reported that activation of musca-
rinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChR of M, subtype
hydrolysis of phosphoinositides and inhibits
voltage-gated 3 channel activity in small cell lung
carcinome (SCLC) cells. We now report that MAChR
to arrest in S and G,/M phases of the cell cycle,
concomitant with a decrease In DNA synthesis. Cell
cycle progression and DNA synthesis resume when
mAChR are down-regulated In serum-starved
SCLCcells. mAChR activation inhibits DNA synthe-
sis Induced by serum, bombesin insulin, or insulin-
like growth factor-L. The finding that DNA synthesis
de inhibited even when mAChR are activated after
exposure of cells to growth factors indicates that
signal transduction by growth factor re-
ceptors le not the mechanism of MACHR-mediated
growth inhibition. Our data suggest that mAChR
activation disrupts a common event that le induced
by different growth factors and le fundamental for
In normal cells, the transition from proliferation
to terminal differentiation is marked by with-
drawal from the cell cycle and an inability to
reenter the cycle in response to growth factors.
Transformed cells do not undergo this transi-
tion, but constitutively remain in the cell cycle;
rupted (Heldin and Westermark, 1984; Wein-
stein, 1987; Kraus et al., 1988). Small cell lung
carcinoma (SCLC) provides a clinically relevant
Abbreviations: GRP, gastrin-releesing peptide; ICse, hal.
factor-i; mAChR. muscarinic acetylcholine receptors: PBS,
phosphate -buffered saline: PI, phosphoinositides, SCLC,
o 1991 by The American Society for Cell Biology

like growth factor-I

et al.,
1988;

causes

(IGF-I)(Macauly

activation couses exponentially growing SCLC cells al., 1988). Activation of these receptors gen-

to induce SCLC proliferation.

cell
has
been
regulate
proliferation
recently
hy-

decreased
cell
cycle progression.
Introduction

the regulation of cell cycle progression is dis- different growth factors, which follows signal

Resuits

maximal inhibitory concentration; IGF-I, insulin-like growth by cells growing exponentially in serum

small cell lung carcinoma.

373