STRICKMANFILTER WINS 2D CONTRACT Another Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs to Uselt By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pall Mall of Canada, "PIT the second-larg- est cigarette sompany in that country, contrackd yesterday with the StrickmaNkcoundation to pay a penny a pack royalty for use of the filter inented by Robert T Strickman. The company, which ie 3 per cent British-owned, but Canadian-managed, sells 12 bil- lion cigarettes a year, very few of them in the United States. The agreement was the second In two days with the founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company. with annual salcs of more than 8! billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. Strickman, was surrendering its rights toi the filter to the foundet'on. The university said e had "made a well-imntentioned mis- take in entering a highly con- troversial end competitive com- mercial ficid . Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financlal stake in the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to it Iast summer by Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set dn on Wednesday by the New Jersey chemist as a charitable institution o). ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has received $200,000 in advance royalties. According to Robert P Katz, the unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts cauld eventually bring in about $5 million a yeartn ros'alties. Mr. Katz, a lawyer who. Is secretary of Seagram's Distil- leries, said that Rothman's Pall pfall of Canada tad been test- ing the. Strickman filtor since lnst August. Wilmat Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman's M said of the device: - "We are sntisfied that nothing exists *o y which gives comparct'e filtration without adversely affecting the flavor of the cigarette. : takes out 'mcre pacsns elo- ments withia the cuniext of ac- ceptable flavor, wie feel that as cigarette company should trv -
New York Times March 1, 1963 Page 34
1
2
M Claims Are Disputed The claim that the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ing cigarette flavor has bcen e subject of controversy. Among the most outspoken eritics of the filter has beenlF Scnator Warren G. Magnuson oN Washington, who has con- tended that its claims have been keatly exaggerated. henouL many governmental and privale health reports by experts habe called cigaretter tar and hicothe health hazards, Columbia univrsity, in a re. port on thév Shjckman filter made public un Wednesday, avoided making ay conclu- So far no United States ciga- rette companies are believed og be close to a contract Tox the filter. Experts say that domes- tic companies need not fear competion in this country from the Canadien cigarettes because of a 15-cent import duty on each package. Pall Mall cigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana- dian concern.
sions.
research.
Au -
