.
8a/n/s
JT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira Nrw York Timer Servier
wan bought 5.1 billion American- Amcrican cigarctie promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars a
made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even in recent
(52.86) compared with 22 panies B advertise on TV after
TAIPEI The Marlboro COW- up sales of $119 millon. In 1986, trade talks between the United u Taiwan dollani (79 cents)for a boy in his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- States and Taiwan Wang Chien. pack of Tsiwan-made cigarettes. ghing from his mouth, has come t9 eign cigarettes Dow hold nearly e shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits o0 cigarette advertis town. His picture adoms kiocks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered * ing is Japan are more liberal. Com- guitar-playing jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted give out : cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign Television This frenetic, fast-growing 04- cigaretie exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lewed in the United States in 1971. tion of nearly 20 million people ly because both Tavan and Japan school students - 12, years oid Cigarette packages sold in Japan amoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-siandiog restrictions. are DOW smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry a label that, mubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exports of like that? Ie's O.K. to have cigareiles them sake of health, don't smoke too made in America, not Taiwan. I American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- mucb" - a warning much milder To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy a $16 billion trade surplus with tban the health-warning labels brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $i billion in new sales. the United States. But those people mandated in the United States. Wacturers have essentially intro ln Japan, which has . population' are juat like robbers. If you are a Tbe companier say American duced cigarette advertising to the of 120 million and where people "urtu . human being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling wellin Taiwan
and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
out this city, next to posters of a peroent. er of Winston cigarettes.
"They to amusemen places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting
for most of the growth in American R said recentiy. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-
year and for the first time, E According to the Brown & Wu- rette companies promote
roughly translated. says, "For the
ialand, and tbat has created a furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year that, Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled ing teen-agers e take da mmoking. more than o perceot last operation that had monopolized percent by 1992. .preseure from Washington. In the alcohol. à cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw Shau-kong a wacturen at - time when sales in and tbe Unitod States are way down laws is way up. According the U.S. 01
not 3O much because of the adver- manufactur- tising as because they are of better thing wrong with the wa) they are cigaretter are made of blended to bacco and bave less tar than Tai- producta and ther say wincse cigarettos which are not
American cigarette year, their
tbe American botly deay.
the past year. The market share 25 from 3 percent S 1986, and the promoting
companics of entic- American cigarettes increased 5 E vigorously deny there la any- quabity and taste better. American
- charge the American companies tised, altbough it does now.
Department of Agriculture pro thry have no plans to change American pressure 9 open their have they pusbed todo 10, they say.
bleoded.
The fOremumeiadminitened dicts that it could grow to 15 8 20 sales pitch.
Tbey are not allowed to advertise s small stores where cigarettes are tions Cigarette manulacturers may
the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials say tbey resent lon television or ia newpapert Nor The government agreed to allow markets 1o producta that éndanger Tbey can advertise only througb otbers into tbe business oaly under people's health. like cigarettes and posiers hung near cigarette racks or year since stiff restrictions on for. "This really burts our feelings, sold, a well a through promo- d American cigarettes in Taiwan /. tbe United Sustes docs legisiator not en- also place 120 ada - year in # have soared. generating much- courage its people to amoke, why zines, cach of whose circulation iel- peadlod arowth for American man- export 1 Taiwan? Younger people dom exocods 200,000. and tbe number of anti-smoking causc of American ada. They bire rettos accounted for leas than 1 aset o Agricukture, people B Tai- difficult lor Sunak boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed to sell
femaics are smoking 1 lot be Before last year, forcign ciga- young attractive 19-year-ol girla cent o tbe market Tarwan Suuron short skirts 01 tive  cis- posed strict cuotas on Depart- arettes (ree in nightclubs k's à cigaretues, banned imports at € and then it becomos a habit. It'i cigarettes and imposed sti tariffs.
&4 forcige
immor."
: reeult imported cigarctien coet
b/6000SZ
