ANE PKJ
vul 15 a 12 r02721-2725
Carclnogenesls
1OGI
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke carcinogens smpurimq-t-(APE4-g-1-(wpuewooJTOLAND3W)-p and benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
< 420
chemopreventive agents
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amancan Health Foundation. Valhalla NY 10595. USA
models examined o date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the A/I mouse because previous
The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction is A/ mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to by 1methylnitromminoh 103gyridyb-t-botsmeme (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined and benzolelpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastrie gavage (i-g-) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of Intraperitonenl injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or Bap for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and7.12-dimethylbenzialanthracene (9,10). either 6 or 61 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse ol evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The 31 route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than 1.p. administration, (4,11.12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse can be replicated because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate thelnjection site and associated mortality. A dose e-response (PEITC) ie an effective inhibitor of lung tumnor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK u! both the A/J mouse and F344 rai (11.13) mice killed 9 or o weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses OfNNK and BaP de total carcinogens This may not 2 realistic with respect 01 tobacco of24 umol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (I). The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are importan Comparisons of NNK and BaP given individually showed representatives of the lung carcinozens in tobacco smoke (IR when given by the i.g. route: 1.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP The most favorahle dosing reginien of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chernopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate parually the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 umol of cach, administered in cight weekly smoking. In addition. the mode! should be relatively rapid and subdoses i.g, with sacrifice 6 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we exomined tumor yields obtained dosing. This regimen induced 10.5:4.4 lung adenomas upon treatment with NNK and BaP. given simultaneously for mouse. > combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks, followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethylisothiocyanate given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, sEn found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP thls study provlde a convenlent model for assessing the NNX was synthesized in the American Heateh Foundation Organic Synthesis efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. Its purity was establihed by HPLC as >997 BaP (931 purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintainad on AIN-76A dirt containing Sa com oil, as previously play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups cf 15 as sammarized in Table L At age 7 weeks. each mouse was kers: -tmafptnimemtori-o-guatéyb-l-biunes (NNK*) treated a inraperitoneal (ip.) injection or by intragasric gavage lig) with and benzofalpyrene (BaP) (1) NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical in 0.I ml cononseed ol NNK and BaP were both carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung ie all rodent disselved in the 0.I ml uned for treatment Injections and gavages were carried *Abbreslations: NNK. 4(mahyininocomino) 1-(3-pyria,t-1 1-butunone, individuat dose wat one-cighth of the rotal. Equimolar dois of NNK and - BoP, bentelejpyrens: PEITC, phencihyl isethiocyanale BITC, benzy BaP were wsed le most of the combination growps, because the amounts of
whlch these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The AII mouse lung tumor mode! has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP u! combination was established in the that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
Most previous studies in the A/J mouse have examined
We sought 2 develop a model which could be used to
5.9 5.7 lung adenomas/mouss e V 0.001) and completely inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
BITC 861 purity) and PEITC (934 purity) were obtained from the Aldrich Chemical Cempany (Milwaukee. Wt), Cottonseed oll sas purchased from Female AJJ mice, age 5 weeka. were obtoined from The Jackson Sovtoge (Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the The design of the bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1 The mice were out for & consecutive werks. The total doses are given = Tuble L Each NNK and toral carcinogenic polycyelie hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke are
Sigma Chemical Co. (S1 Louis, MOI.
Introduction a
agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
divided
isothiocyanait, in intriperitoncal, is, introgastric gavage.
o Oaford Univenity Press
2721
