HKB2228115
SANTA BAKBARA SAN14 P

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
a - 5 TA. 2 : - -
7 : a H MIN 2
IPAKIME 7 : : tiww
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willias H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Rescarch rourdation
715 Muir Lands Visto Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. fishwan:
and Salk.

4 - a : In AM IM A

M
-
1A : MHOEVA :

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolia rescarch cocaunity. In particular, the activities of the la Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Fouuration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzynes
should fit in well with ongo ing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnrent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopeental
prublems is particularly ieely. It will be 0! o-at potential importance for
pulling tcgetter work. by a number of laboratories directed toeard isolation,
characieriztaion and doternitiation of the sienificance of hurian oncodevelopental
antigens such as alphafvluprotein and Carcintxebryonic antigens.
One of the goals of the work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship
of increased serura concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinoper
exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systers clearly derion-
strate tne 1 anirals pasodxa to heuatocarcinouems have clevated serum ArP concen-
trations prior to developant of malionant timcrs. It is hoped that systere tic
study of husan scra frut differect sources will determing if serus AFF concun-
In addition, the role of env irunmental fac tors such as hormonal influences on
the production of encodevelojsental gene pril.ts can be further explored in
different sy: tems. Such data implies that the prod;u tion of sicocsvelopmental
gene products by tunor cells is net a fixed property of a aiven tumor but is
He look fonrard to vorking with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundat fon
in furthering research in the importunt subjert of oncodeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoses exposure.

subject to environmenta controls.

expression.
Best regards,
Stewart Sel1, M.D.
Professor
SS/nb