WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRISUNE
D. 25,605
S. 49,326
WACO METEOPOLITAN AREA
MAR S 1963

FC Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard-- Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission fron going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, It
dnes not scem right or logical that one medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer w hile
newspapers, magazines, billboards and c ounte Cr
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expected i1 review the FCC proposal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC sald it is proposing to refuse licenses
01 broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising
because of evidence that smoking is injurious S hcalth
and the FCC has an obligation a protect the public
intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals 0) do
es they please so long as thcy doa't harm another.
It also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that if nok don't mention something. maybe e won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democret, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com-
merce Com.mittce, said in reference 1 the proposed
FCC rule that the ngency had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has
any right to tell an advertiser what he could not
say in his advertisements. Rogers said Congress will
take a close Icok at the whole question of regulations
on televisinn and radio advortising content, not only
as to the Federal Communicativts Commission but
in regard to Federal Trade Commnission praclice: as
The stakes involved extend beyond the business
of broudcasling. They 03 to the heart of whether
government burcaus should he allowed to go beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Health.

hurt you and will disappear.

well.
:

tho linits of due proccss and thc law.