Poluter Dat
bs Samue S. Epstein The author surveys the record of indust ari-generated data Eualaing enlem - shimss à constrames U data- from Khn madequas V biased mierpretation ma mpulatam. suppresshm and A le outrighi de- stms tm-ate sommemplat e esperiall when prohiable In hnolugirs are mohed. Alarmngh. unh eaden e E juushes strong reserations as 0I the saludus of wr data deseloped by institumons I inde uluab nlune grommn intetrals are dueuth or Informatum 2 the uneus of C onumi and polan al Ihmer Drunn-making al all lesebs ef gm. etment sldnant the availabhts of a bods of in lormaton, INI the hu ol t hix h the relatise merits el ahernae pesln ies an he anah red and considered. If thn sles matue et data base a tan nished ur imal ud. then whateirt des AHMIS te ted hed saus abobe ulun : us alul, threatenng the Laben ol dene à mrrshel lmang tull ef all bencht and ik $ U uhn le ns regulator des ISMIS are based. frem the mtlusnes themehes bemg ed Theve duta are eithes generaied and mterpteted Eus anel unner undes EIMME : le idusts
mdure ih afle ted
urn geriment TURES
- . a a de  - Mahe,
tegulat.
Bunh intes this pees 1 a adre of sonsuliants mstitutes. whene stamp ul appronal priides the
In m-lunne * arstitie sall (HE In ommete a labta generalh from preuiguus unneruurs or reseanh Iu-lunie vienulie uall - nH mmune to sub daa wnh n addusal mantle el authorite The A BMI and sale ons is prewures frems resrarch idlenttues ol these sonsultanas dre ofrn hidden nevt anl deschpmen and mr keug deparments. anv onh from the puhle bun al fiom ther oni unne 1etis le hus thest produr nt jMen EM sntes as s at insistutmms Thenuhrurual mterests ef thew ueh ti soniet ual Labor. atetics and anCIsueS IB whene aduiuirs and mpen commitires thes Si. unlwur luh luving hia la a saslu ned eT the uen 18 i des hnl a usalh mamtained m onldentual market. a pla IR . hadh sonsurnt with the ethn hles In's knk .t a les rase hnter ies diav n fiom : anttar 2 1s ulus nt mminme tes umpnken prar Canshtamre IN thr (irratiuts el Dale at 15 Diwdn mfe matin E mtes petatins The nast swnme prublem uah industrall gen sonuste m 14 uh hi ae prisened a ahue mtrirssol eratedl data i a Jmn ales Derph u u0 emned In mluan ern thennth this hnuted ihr malequa ad daa sulumatted in 19N17 te the mete hkeh le refiet sheet -trm, rath I anel Ihug Admamstsatomn IF FDAI I indusr Samel 1 - pia 4 mar rten d islupatital andra namin fewel addune petsmis at niully submnter le the lul # th ut ie f el i Heuhk . wnrah  I Fel anl Thug Admmssatems hune heen m anti
à kied the to agene ws
-
marise Indusuul 10MTA is t ualh an anded 4 sonsulants ate euhet nsN
afsompenn erapmalam thr LI mng perepun - e than hig-trm, mteieus ns Medwuf si a Aung Ih leff - sera . lA A I Pt -  tsh An Ius : 1 dermeating his hatete In
the held ol IXL cuputumal Land emstemmental sne a
Ihe ana tes ragei le the awanl al futurr
aud salues el haud addane m supyni petitionns hasr mal I pleir a  a - - a fusihre aleipaich Hires ieparsted . - L04 2.
then Cammuis ibe supponied regula al therfin hune iomed wlwe.
sines Ielwi Les complamed Almunt hall al the
