Apendia 1
SMINATS in CANCER BIOLOGY, Vol 1, 1990 : pp 197-136
The role of cathepsin L in malignant transformation
Susan E. Kane and Michael M. Gottesman *
Procathepsin 7 is the major excreted protein of malignantly What is MEP? The first hint as to the idenrification of transformed mouse fibroblasts and it is one of the major MEP came from studies in which MEP was shown to acid cysteine broteases in mammalian cells. The broad gen- be a glycoprotein containing mannose 6-phosphate.s eral protease activity of cathepsin 7 against a variety of Since mannose 6-phosphate is a lvsosomal recogni extrecellular matrix proteins as well as other intracellular tion marker, it appeared that MEP was a lvsosomal trotein substrates, and its regulation by factors which stim- protein whose transcription was increased as the ulate growth, suggest that it contributes to the transformed result of growth stimulation. A search for hydrolytic bhenotype. Possible functions in antigen processing, inua- activities associared wich purified MEP led to the dis- siveness, metastasis. and turnouer of intracellular and covery that MEP was an acid protease inhibitable by secreted broteins involued in growth regulation have been leupeptin, which pur it in the class of cysteine pro- Key words: Cathepsin L / growth factors / rumor pro- resembled that of cathepsin L.I0 However published THE ASSOCIATION of cathepsin L with the process of weights of 21,000 Da and 5000 Da, whereas MEP was malignant transformation was first demonstrated in a 39,000 Da protein. This discrepancy was resolved 1978, when e was found that malignantly trans when the sequence of MEP CDNA was determined formed mouse fibroblasts secrete large amounts of a and its deduced amino acid sequence was compared 39.000 Da protein into their culture medium. This to the available partial protein sequence of cathepsin protein, termed MEP for major excreted protein, was L MEP was found to be the precursor to the lysoso- purified to homogeneity and rabbit antisera were mal form of cathepsin LI identical 9 the major cys raised against the purified mouse protein. The anti- teine protease of activated macrophagesit and the sera were found 2 precipitate an intracelluiar -oud major ras-induced protein of transformed tein which was present in nontransformed cells and fibroblasts.13 For the remainder of this review, MEP synthesized at dramatically increased rates in trans- will be referred tO as procathepsin L. be the result of elevated amounts of translatable MEP tied to growth stimulation in cultured cells? Does the mRNA.3 Later, after a CDNA for MEP was cloned, enzymology of cathepsin L indicate anything about this high level of mRNA was demonstrated by nuclear its possible function in malignancy? Why is pro run-off sAessE to be the result of incrcased transcrip cathepsin L secreted even though it carries lvsosomal tion.5 PMA. a phorbol ester tumor promoter and a recognition markers: How is la processed to vield variety of growth factorst67 were shown 9 stimulate mature cathepsin L in Ivsosomes? How do oncogenes MEP synthesis and secretion. suggesting that MEP and growth factors reguiate expression of procathep- wvas associated with the process of growth in cultured sin L mRNA? Does cathepsin L play a role in human
trrobosed.
teases. More detailed analvsis of the proteolytic specificity of MEP on oxidized insulin B chain, a stan- dard protease substrate, showed that MEP activity data on cathepsin L suggested that che lysosomal form of this protease was a protein consisting of two polypeptide chains having approximate molecula:
moters / oncogenes / secreted proteases
formed cells2 This increased synthesis was shown to
Why is the synthesis of procathepsin L so closely
fibroblasts
cancer? This review will attempt to provide answers to
these questions.
From the Laboratory of Molecular Biology. Netional Cance Institute, NIH, 9000 Rockoille Pikr, Building 37, Room 2E16, Bethesda, MD 20892. USA *To tehorn rebrnis requests shonld be addressed o 1990 by WB Saunders Company 1044.579X/90/0102-010455.00/0
Enzymology of cathepsin L
Cathepsin L * a porent evsteine protease. one of sev eral acid proteases presumed to be invoived in the
127
