- ? Dls Val. 38. No 1.pp. 17-26. 1985
Priated ie Great Britain. IIV rights reserved

0021-9681 8553.00- 000
Copyright C 1985 Pergamon Press Lid

PSYCHOSOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ADOLESCENT
SMOKERS REFORE THEY STARTED SMOKING:
EVIDENCE OF SELF-SELECTION
A PROSPECTIVE STUDY
CARL C. SELTZER and FRANK W. OECHSLI
Peabody Museum. Harvard Liniversits Cambridge. MA 02138 and the Child Health and
Development Studics, School of Public Health, University of California. Berkcky.

CA 94720, U.S.A.
(Recrited in retised form 17 dugust 1934)

Abstract- -Evidence of noncomparability of self-formed smoker and nonsmokes groups of
adolescents from the Child Health and Development Studies of the University of Califomia.
Berkeley. was found in a study of antecedent psychosocial characteristics lobserved at age to1
before the adoption ofthe smoking habit. With possible confounding factors controlled, eventual
smokers showed significantly greater prevalence than nonsmokers of Type A personality traits,
eutraversion. paychoticism, anger. and nestless sleep. Eventual smokers were lower in socio-
economic status than nonsmokers. and also eshibited significantly lower mean scores for the
Raven Progressive Matrices and Peabody Picture Vocabulary tests For each trait. the trends of
the data were consistent Ln boys and giris Since many of these traits are shown 0 I into
adult life where they are then related to coronary heart disease. the role of self-sclection requires
further consideration in causal inferenocs about smoking and coronary heart discase.

INTRODLCTION

IN RECENT years, many oublished studies have shown an association that suggests a role
for psychosocial factors in the pathogenesis of CHD (1.2) In the Framingham Study.
univariate and multivariate analyses showed a positive relationship of certain psycho-
social factors 01 CHD and also 01 cigurette smoking (3-5). The pervasive question of
temporal precedence and a prion self-selection still requires further clarification. however
in the absence of controlled experiments. the effects of cigarette smoking on health have
been inferred from observational studies that compare persons who smoke with
nonsmokers In these comparisons. the disease outcomes are assumed to occur in cohorts
of smokers and nonsmokers who were initially similar in all relevant characteristics except
for the difference in smoking habit. Very little evidence has heen available. however. to
The unique data of the Child Health and Development Studies (CHDS) of the
University of Califomia. Berkeley, provide an opportunity to check this assumption by
examining antecedent characteristics associated with teenage smoking [6-8]. The CHDS
in a prospective investigation of children from birth to late adolescence At various stages
of their development, the children were examined as to their biological, social. and
In this report, we have analyzed the antecedent psychosocial characteristics of a large
cohort of boys and girls before some of them later began cigarette smoking as teenagers
Reprint requests should be addressed to: Frank W. Oechsli, Child Health and Development Studies,
This project was supported by Grant E from the Peahody Muscum. Harsard Lniversity

verify this assumption

personality status, as well as environmental and familial influences

2131 University Ave., Berkelev, CA 94704, U.SA.

8 J8/1- .

17