LOS ANGPLES TIES
Los Angeles, Californin
October 20, 1954
E been proved.
ale I'niversity

hairil upon the premise that hination n' a particular tvpe
aneetinn hetveen riea in each of the three rategnrics
smoking and disease ha hae alrcadv produred 'a sale
Might Take Six Months one i is, so all can be made
Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. M not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Carrnce Cnok Litte
complete statistical study to chairman of the sciertific ad-
date. said tbat "some say we vianry board and scient'fic di
should wait for more defini rector o: the Toharro Indus
ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves wonld
nne hae said just what the de produre some nf "the defni
finitive eviience wouid be." tive eviderre tn waich Dr
# sand he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In inie talk 1o the Ameriran "We wiil tackle
system was more important, line of the

Calls
Safe
Cigaretfes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
is Overwhelming

cigarette os31 seientific re-
search should prove which
should And
"since
one,
peo-
ple like to smoke cigarettes.
try Resrarch Committee, de-
seribed the outlines ni siud-
Tackle U'nknewns
researeh
industry's
program "We seek definitive

Expert
for

statistician

tive evidence before develop

NEW YORK Ort. 61 (LP thie iewnoint

The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eously many of the unknowns simultan
arette smoking with b 0 - h Hammond xaidt the relation- in this feld of tobacen Iise in
lung cancer and heirt dis- ship of rigarette xmoking to relation to tumun health, he
ease is "overw helming" and the heart and the vascular said in announcing the out-
once about develoning "a safe health. than the relationship findings in an area where
cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to much suggestive work has
cal scientist told the annual And a safe cigarette from heen done. The nrogram nf
Tobacco Industry Research tnbacen. there are varinus relationship hetwnen en ron-
Committee anaounced some of types 2 flters, and there are mental factors, includ E a
the details nf SE sricatifie re varioux terhn'ques nf curing The moa

something should be done at from the standpoint of public

the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recngnizes tha: we
prove surceasfal in xix do not have todav the experi
nonths, wirh luek," he said menta! evidence that wil per-
ie tobaren, he Raid, and ie may set was important nrncert

meeting cf the American migh:
Cancer Society today.
At the xame time the scien-
tife advisory board of the
srarch program te h

Outlines Described
are
There various types ol
he thar some fortustonis rom- up
LOG ANGELES EYAWINES
Los Ange les, California
October 20, 1954

mit scientifie eonclasions PA
garding the raure and rfert
sninking and lune rancer
a direet acudy nf
current lung cancer rase: n
10 medical centers in :he : ni
ed States and Canada.

It will include numerous
studles of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers,
as well as tests on animals
Only the main broad aspeets
of the research were disclosed
today. The specifio research
grants, financed Aq the TIRC,
will be announced later.

HEALTHSTUDY
NO TOBACCO
NEW YORK. Oct. 19 -
A bread stx-point study seek
ing knowledge whether eigareta
or other forms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health haz-
ards was announced today.
It is the first announcement
of a big research proxram
headed A9 the sclentifie ad-
visory board a the Tobacco In
dustry Researeh Committee

(TIRC),

COR TI 14062