Truefal Ise Questions S the Chenistr, and Paychophyslelogy of Odor and Flavor
1. T . Sone nodern workers suggest that accurate sensuresant of vibrational
frequency (in the far infrared, for exanple) of an unknown odorant
will pernit prediction of its quallty and intenslty.
T No elenentel substance, not even he Iides or ozone hes eny odor; Instead
they react with the mucosa fonaing new products whlch are smelled; but
T Sone odorants have steric or vihrational propert les which force the
cone luslon that they are odor less whon they are not.
i1. T Present evidence strongly suggests thet dl fferont parts of the ol factory
receptor ares, Ilke tho retina in the eye, are qua ilty-spocific.
T Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor
T No one yet has a fire clue as to the critical relation between the
molecule nnd the receptor which permits en odor perception.
- The greoter the secretion rate of eucous or sellve, the higher thelr pH,
and both pHl and tomperature Influence the quallty of sensation in the
111. T The ideat Instrumentel detector would respond to odors e the sane
quantitetive range as does an onlea or human subject.
T Such an Ideat detector hes not been developed.

sone elements possess teste.

sur face In order to be smelled.

chenicn! senses.

:

Ihman observors with head In fixed position cen by virtue of the two
Indopentent nostrils eesily discern stereo sua 11 effects, 1.e. they
can tell whother au odoront is at the right or left hand, much os one
uses his two ears In locat ing the source of a sound,
- For certaln musk- liko compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to
trigger a hunon olfact ory response
V. - Adaptation to 0ne olfactory qunlity does not significant ly reduce
sensitivity to any other dissiei lar quallty, but does reduce sensi
tivity to all sinilor qual litles.
T F By enploying a alallerities nethod of conparing qualitles, one con now
obtein ident Ity and degrees of difference without rocour se to trouble-
vi. T Hunger lowers thresholds siightly to some food qua Iltios but not for
T it is now possible to Ident fy the Intensity and quallty of a certain
given stimull sieply by expert examination of the electrophysiologice
record taken trom appropriate odor or taste neurons.
T Electrical stimulet lon of taste in unn yields only reports of "sour"
and a "ectallic" or "alkaling" quality.
T Direct electricel stimulation of the olfactory senso has nover yet beon
successfully eccompllshed.
vI. T Although total anosala Is rare In humans and ageusia even rarer, there
is evidence that in analogy to color vision deflciences, some people
are Insensit tive to (only certein) qualities whi le having noreal
sensitivity to others,
T Toplcal anesthetics applled to the rongue show that different quallties
1 Certaln endocrine disense entitles make It possible for some people
quite sensitively to "snell" such "odor less substences es sucrose or
sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both teste and odor can be
reduced to noreel by manipuletion of endocr Ine lovels.
t enenopausa wonon at the time of ovulatlon fInd certaln odors extrenely
disegreeable whlle at other times In tha menstrun cycle these some odors

sose words.
others.

of taste disappear at different rates.

they will judge quite pleasant.

pM A