SYMPTOMS AND THE IN3INNOHIANSTOHOIN IN THE
SICK BUILDING SUNOHCINAS A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.L.H.
complaints associaied with the "sick building syndrome
Ar same ame, hemkcro-emvironmony (evironmental

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT
the

et al. (1987) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
questionnaire The symptoms were more common ls build-

In a cross-sectional invesnganion E I building. office buildings built over the last 8 years with a validased
were measured on a linear analog scale quertionnaire. ings where the ventilation system abso provided cooling and
characteristics S the breaching zone rather then area direct relationship between the level of complaints I air
samples) a characterized by measuring temperenure, quality parameten : not described Skov et a (1987) e
relarive hamidiry, respirable suspended 'smopad car- amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern 1
bon dioxide, noise level, lighaing iniensiry, releche ka- tom halls and 14 older control buildings. A level ol i
midiry, and airflow. No relarionship a seen behween toms was related a . "Reecing" factor (carpets, upbolstery.
the degree of symptoms and age. educacion, or durasion and horizontal surfaces) cad the "macro-moleculer I
of employment at the building or time spent e che 1 nent" of dust. They also demoostrated . relationship between
Su on a daily basis. Starisrically, complaints were the oumber of hours spent photocopying and uing carbonless
significantty more frequent amont smoking I Envi- Adoo paper and the level of complaints. Other srudies bave
ronmental characteristics associaled 1 à incresaed demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985)
complainu levels in this group included decreesed airfow and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) cootribute
models, chere was an association between respirable a- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome by mea
pended particulases and the levels of boch macous mom suring symptoms and enviroamental exposures. Robertson et
brane and ryssemic complaints. Sarirfaction wiah a F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif-
chermal environment e predicted by percepcion of dreft ferences le the concentrations of environmental pollutants
R not clearty contribute to the degree of rymptoms, berween rooms in . mechanicall and . naturally ventileted
alchough regression models did auggest t complaines building. They studied the rooms with the f complaint
were not independent of chermal paramesers. - I I and used area samples. Skov et . (1987) did demon-
insensiry MES also associeted I complaints. I strate a relationship between symptoms and both ares I
mudies of a sick building sydrome I cxamine ples measuring dust and . "macro-molecular" fraction. 1

humidification. irrespective of the

-

ae of the buildings. A

velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended par- a indoor air quality complaints.

ticulases 1 dry-bulb sempereture. In regression

Several studies have attempted to identify the actual

* exposures simulsaneously and include prycho- la area 1

L measucres a identify predictors of complaints in

Area samples is buildings may not be representative of
a exposures le different points in single rooms. Physical
characteristics soch a windows and partitions, computers,
and sbelving may infuence air currents. Radiant I may

indoor spaces.
INTRODUCTION

Complaints termed the * building syndrome" have lead 01 uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, moet pol
led to pumerous iavestigations ie the last 15 years. E are hutants resuk from point sources, 2 they will be diluted * .
thought to occur primarily e newty constructed * [ subject dm fartber removed from the source. The micro #
E and, at keast in the past, were thought to be due 8 vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelea. . different exposure characteristics than the macro-environ
# variery of causes have been identifed le specifie setting. ment of a building la addition. all applied occupational and
inchuding inadequate semperature and relative bumidity 8 enviroamental bealth research that attempts 01 relate dose to
trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounde bealth effects suflers from the problem that dose i penerally
and formaldehyde. microorganisms, environmental tobecco measured at several points in time 1 then extrapolated to (
smoke, pesticides, d entrainment of vehicle exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decades
spent and contaminated air and boiler fumes, Abers released # most heakth effects are messured a . 1 1 of
from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronie exposures Wbere the variability of sampling
A proup of investigatons from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms Kes change not merely trom
et al. 1984) sugpested that these complaints were related pri- day to day but from hour to hour, such a sratepy mast tail.
(Robertson et al. 1985) : unable o1 identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the I
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (temper- enviroament and set these characteristics in relation a a
ature), relative humidity. air velocity, formaldehyde. or pos level of individual complaints at a given point in I This
itive or negative ions between several rooms le . building report presents results of a croms-sectional investigation of a
with natural and - building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using . sctf-administered linear analog.
where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints Burge set-asessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
E I . Amistan Prolenor of Medione and el Industrial I Enviroomental Heakh Sciences at the Univeruty of Pxmsburgh School
of Medicine and Public Heahh. P. Colepy B Direcor, Environmental Heahh & Salery, Carepe-Mellon Univeruty, Pirtsburgh. PA.

(Kreiss and Hodgson 1984; Hodgson and Kreiss (9861
marily to mechanical ventilation. The same proup of authors

results la greater than the difference ia average samples, and
No investigations in a peer-reviewed literature I