Genetic Epidemiology 5:265-275 (1988)

Estimating Genetic Parameters of Survival
Distributions: A Multifactorial Model

Joanne M. Meyer and Lindon J. Eaves

Department of Human Genetics, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond
For: 3 number of genetically influenced illnesses. age ofonset de correlated between
relatives. is some cases, age of onset also serves as an index of an individual's
inherited liabiliry to ue illness. Typically, survival models for age of onset distri-
butions do not allow for these effects. We have used the gamma distribution as the
basis of a model which specifies genetic variability in age of onset. Specifically,
we allow the hazard frequency parameser of the gamma distribution o be a
under various gamma models indicate that age of onset correlations may be
strikingly different from correlations is liabiliry. Maximum likelihood estimation
procedures were used to obtain parameter estimates from simulated data sets and
01 deiermine whether it is possible to discriminate between gamma processes of
different order. The results for 1,000 pairs of rwins (500 monozygotic and 500
dirygotic) gave parameter estimates that were fairly accurate but that decreased in
precision as the order of the gamma process increased. We discuss the effect chis
may have uo inferences made about age of onset.
Key words: age of onset correlations, survival models, gamma distribution

monotonic function of an individual ia inherited

o an illness.
liabiliry

romte

Simulations

INTRODUCTION

Genetic analyses of illnesses and behaviors showing a variable age of onset
require a knowledge of the cumulative probability of onset by given ages. Some
approachés [Weinberg, 1915; Stromgren, 1938; Risch, 1983) derive this probability
from prior age of onset distributions. Others [Elston, 1973; Heimbuch et al., 1980;
Risch, 1983] estimate parameters of a cumulative age of onset distribution from the
data. When the data allow its use, the latter method de more appealing since specific

Reccived for publication January 11, 1988; revision accepied Apri22, 1988.

Address reprint request 1o Joanne Meyer, Department of Human Geneties, Bor 33 Medical College of

Virginia, Richmend, VA 23298.
0 1988 Alan R. Liss, Inc.