page 43
INQUIRER Philadelphis, Pa. March 27, 1964
INQUIRER Philadelphia, Pa. March 26, 1964
2 Cancer Types Rare Nuns, Study Shows PALM BEACH SHORES, Fla., March 26.-An extenaive nuns bas shed light on some stubborn problems of medical research. it was reported LIVE 6 YEARS LONGER The survey, conducted with that the the "generous collaboration" of was T75 years, about six years chureh anthorities, has enlisted higher than for American the cooperation of more than) en a general. 116,000 nuns in 262 religious Dr. Nix said the nuns "get preliminary results numbers as other women, but based on pilot studies and a por- they seem to get them 10 years tion of the main survey in 1963 later than the average woman.' were revealed here at th e There was a strikingly low sixth annual American Cancer incidence of cervical cancer, Society Science Writers' Semi- which Dr. Nix attributed to is an unusual type of en, although it ean now be activity for the nans, said detected early enough with the they felt the knowledge is à Among the nuns, Dr. Nix found and that e was their only one case-in a 93-year-old The survey's primary target a fairly high incidence of breast lationships of health to celibacy, "The nuns realized that a abstinence from alcobol or larger series would be of great- smoking and other environmen- er statistical value and One of the striking findings of death information for the cal- the pilot stady was that I endar year 1964," Dr. Nix said. mous cell lung cancer-the type As the new data chiefly eaused by smoking. are being up the great computers of the Tulane Univer- majority of all lung eancer sity Biomedical Computing Cen- cases today-occurs only rarely ter. They promise valuable in- Dr. Nix added that the ne- babits of living on health. liglous communities' no-smoking rules seem a likely reason for a strikingly low incidence of bleeding or perforating peptic Preliminary resalts from the main study were based 00 575 of the 1116 deaths reported in the communities last year.
Higher Death Rate
In
Males Is
By GARY BROOTEN Of The Inquirer Staff
Among
survey of Thursday.
of causes death
Attributed
to Smoking deaths of all Inquirer Staff 1 significant fact in itself. March PALM 23.-A BEACH SHORES. Fla.. But by comparing the 69,000 ex- statistician said leading bealth that cess smokers' deaths with the much of tbe long accepted dif. 153.700 excess death. among all ference in death rates between men. the statisticians came to sexes may be attributable to the conclusion that 14.8 percent differences in cigaret smoking. of these excess deaths among not fundamental sex differences. males could be blamed on L. Levin, evidence now indi- Previvusly, the differences cates that cigarets can be (which are usually expressed 100,000 excess d 4 a S of as a longer life expectancy for among smokers at each age that other factors are at work, Dr. Levin. chiel of epidemi. Su rge o n General's Advisory ology at the Roswell Park Committee report on
among America's Roman Catholic The most striking finding: average age of death heart attacks la about the same
Heavy By GARY BROOTEN Of The Wednesday
for that age group
wom-
communities. Some nar. DUTY TO HUMANTTY "This Dr. James T: Nix, of New so-called Orleans, director of the study. "But they cooperated because ly. portant, duty to all their sisters and de sister. all humanity. is to pin down some of the E eancer, 1 facios. which makes among the nuns, uleers.
Furthermore. said Dr. Morton smoking. blamed for a minimum" America every Excess year. can deaths be defined loosely as early deaths. In differences smoking studies, they are caleu- women. lated by comparing deaths level with deaths expected general life expectancy tables. Memorial Institute in Euttalo. did N. Y., made his remarks at the sixth annual American Society Science par here. He offered male higher attributed to smoking. In the typical year (1960), smokers. These men ably would not have died presum- that year had they not been smokers. The excess deaths among smokers constituted 20 percent
celibacy and good hygiene. Can- cer of the cervix is a common disease. among American wom- smear" "Pap test so that it can be treated effective- On the other hand. there was already have started collection of nun pour in, they processed in the big formation on the influence of
in women) had been attributed loosely to biological and other between men and "It is important to remember Dr. Levin said. from He sand Ite fact thial the not give a figure for totai excess deaths due to smoking Cancer "underscores the magnitude el this publie heaith problem." Dr. Levin reported on the figures indicatini first 300 patients w'ho had gone that nearly 45 percent of the through the institute's Ameri can Caricer Society-ap@hiored death rate can bc rescarch projeet on smokers The reasoning runs like this: withdrawal clinies, but gave no statisties on how many had 25-to-64-year age group. quit smoking. 155,700 more men than woaten He said preliminary results died in Amcrtca in a given indicate that an antismoking compound, Lobeline. hel d1 . In the same year, there were smokers quit. but only while 69.800 excess deaths among male they are taking it.
smokin,
Writers' Semi
heavy
1005151230
