FF
Principal lnvestigator/Program Direcior (Last. first, middle):
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH POSITION TITLE
Give the lollowing information for the key personne: and consullants and collaborators. Begin with the principal
investigatorfprogram director. Photocopy this page lor each person.
NAME
Constance Smith
Postdoctoral Fellow
EDUCATION (Begin with baccataureate or other initial prolessional education, such 8 nursing. and include postdoctoral training.)
YEAR CONFERRED 1986 1994
INSTITUTION AND LOCATION Wesleyan University, Middletown, CT University of California, Berkeley, CA Emory University School ofMedicine
DEGREE B.A. Ph.D.
FIELD OF STUDY Biology Molecular & Cell Biology
Postdoc 1994-present Anatomy & Cell Biology
RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Concluding with present position, list, is chronological order, previous employment. experience, and honors. Key personnel include the principal investigator and any other indivdduals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the project. Key personnel typically will include all individuats wilh doctoral or other profassional degrees, but in some projects will include individuals at the masters or haccalaureate level provided they contribute in a substantive way to the scientific development or execution of the project. Include present membership on any Federal Government public Kiosupe committee List, in chronological order, the titles, all authors, and complete references to all publications during the past three years and le representative earlier publications pertinent lo this application. If the list ol publications in the last three years excoeds two pages,
select the most pertinent publications. DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES. RESEARCH/PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
11/86 - 12/87 - 01/88 07/88 08/88 - 06/94 07/94 - 08/94 . 09/94 present HONORS 1993 1994 1995-1996 PUBLICATIONS Papers
Research Assistant, Anatomy & Cell Biology Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. Participated in biochemical purification oft tropomodulin in the lab ofVelia M. Fowler. Assisted in polyclonal antibody production and purification in the lab ofVelia M. Fowler. Postdoctoral fellow, in the laboratory ofDr. Shirley T. Bissen, Dept. ofBiology,
Institute
CA.
Research Assistant Molecular Biology, Research Doctoral Candidate in the laboratory of Dr. David A. Biology, Univ. ofCalifornia, Berkeley. University ofMissouri, St. Louis, MO.
of Scripps Clinic, LaJolla, Weisblat Molecular and Cell B. Luskin, Dept, of Anatomy
fellow
Marla
and Cell
Postdoctoral
in the laboratory ofDr.
Biology, Emory University School ofMedicine, Atlanta, GA
Best poster award, West Coast Regional Developmental Biology Conference Invited speaker for minisymposium, Society for Developmental Biology meeting National Research Service Award, National Instinute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke
Smith, C.M. and Weisblat, D.A. (1994) Micromere fate maps in leech embryos lineage - specific differences in Smith, C.M., Lans, D. and Weisblat, D.A An investigation of cellular mechanisms of epiboly in leech embryos Bissen, S.T. and Smith, C.M. mRNA synthesis is required for asymmetric cell division during a critical period of Fowler, V.M. and Smith, C.M. (1988). Inhibition of tropomyosin binding to F-actin 44 tropomodulin, a new tropomyosin-binding protein from the human erythrocyte membrane. L CellBiol 107: 681A.
rates of cell proliferation. Development 120:3427-3438.
(Submitted to Development)
early leech development up) preparation).
Abstracts
PHS 398 (Rev. 9/91)
(Form Page 6) Page 50650464
FF
Numbor pages corsocutvely at the bottom thoughout the applicatien no nor use surtixes such as Ja. 3b.
