HKB2228112
SANTABANMARA SANTA-P

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO

: IA. it - : AI. -At - i : SANINAV Ni

TABA MHOEVA :

MIBEN H MIMINI
IEPAKIMI 2 : FADHST
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willias H. Fishmar
La Jolla Cancer Rescarch rouridation
715 Muir Lands Visto Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. Fishwan:
and Salk.

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolia rescirch cocunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Research Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzynes
should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnrent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelepmental
prublems is particularly ieely. It will be 0! o"at potential importance for
pulling togetter work by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation,
characteriztaion and doterniiation of the sienificance of hurian oncodevelopmental
antigens such as alphafeteprotein and Carcintebiyonic antigens.
One of the goals of the work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship
of increased serura concentrations of ArP to precalignant lesions or carcinogen
exposure in humnans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systers clearly derion-
strate tnet anirals pasodxo to hejatocarcinouens have clevated serum ArP concen-
trations prior to developrant of mslionant timers. It is hoped that systertic
study of husan sera frun differest sources will determing if serurs AFF concun-
In addition, the role of envirunsental factors such as hormonal influences on
the production of encodevelojsental gene prikts can be further explored in
different sy:toms. Such data implies that the prod;u tion of eicoczvelopmental
gene products by turor cells is net a fixed property of a aiven tumoir but is
We look fonrard to workina with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the important subjert of oncodoveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoses exposure.

subject to enviroumental controls.

expression.
Best regards,
Stewart Srl1, M.D.
Professor
SS/nb

-