PHILIP MORRIS Inc New York, New York
CONTACT: Dolly Colby
212-878-2144
COURT RULES KEY FLORIDA MEDICAID AGENCY SI UNCONSTITUTIONAL: SEVERELY NARROWS APPLICATION OF CONTROVERSIAL LAW TALLAHASSEE Fla., June 28 - A circuit judge in Tallahassee today declared key provisions of the controversial 1994 Amendments to the Medicaid Third-Party Liability Act unconstitutional and held that the state agency charged with administering the state's Medicaid program is unconstitutionall structured. Charles R. Wall, senior vice president and deputy general counse for Philip Morris, said the ruling should provide the basis for the dismissal of a claim by the State of Florida. Today's ruling came i5 a declaratory judgment case filed by the Associated Industries of Florida, Philip Morris Inc. and others. "Because the court ruled that the state agency is unconstitutionalh structured, we believe that the claim based on the state's Third-Party Medicaid Liability Act should now be dismissed, said Wall. That case is pending in in addition, today's ruling clarified a crucial issue the State of Florida sought to obscure last week in media interviews after the hearing leading to today's ruling. The Court held that the new Medicaid law applies only to allegedly tortious conduct occurring AFTER July 1, 1994, the date the new law In his ruling, Circuit Judge F.E. Steinmeyer said the law "may only be applied prospectively - specifically, to conduct of potential third-party defendants that occurred after the amendments' effective date of July 1, 1994. No party shall be held liable under the amendments for conduct or activities that "This could well be the beginning of the end of this lawsuit by the State of Florida, Wall said. "The State's claims governed by the new Medicaid law are essentially based on allegedly tortious acts occurring before the effective date of this law and therefore cannot be the basis for any finding of liability." The Court also declared unconstitutional the new Medicaid law's provision that allowed the State to join together in a single lawsuit hundreds or
circuit court in West Palm Beach.
became effective.
occurred before July 1, 1994."
- -
