STRICKMAN FILTER WINS 2D CONTRACT 7 [Another Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs to Use It : S By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pall Mall of Canada, Ltd., the -31-puooos est cigarette sompany in that country, contracked yesterday with the Strickmai oundation to pay a penny a pack royalty for use of the filter invented by Robert L. Strickman. The company, which is 30 per cent British-owned, but Canadian-managed, sells 12 D9 lion cigarettes a year, very few of them ls the United States. The agreement was the second In two days with the founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company, with annual salcs of more than 18 billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. "ueunouns was surrendering its rights 0 the filter to the foundation. The university said it had "made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering a highly con- troversial end competitive com- mercial field." Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financlal the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to it last summer iq Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set up on Wednesday by the New Jersey chemist as a charitable institution a ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has received $200,000 in advance royalties. According 2 Robert 7 Katz, the unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts cauld eventually bring tn about S$ million e yeartn royalties. Mr. Katz, a lawyer who. Is secretary of Seagram's Distil- leries, said that Rothman's Pall' nfall of Canada hed been test- ing the. Strickman filtor since lnst August. Wilmat Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman's, said of the device: *We are sntisfied that nothing exists to: y which gives - comparcl's filtration without adversety affecting the flavor of the cigarette. : takes out mcre padsns $ ments withia the cuniext of ac- ceptable flavor, wie fcel that : a cigarette company"we shnuld trvi". : - E
New York Times March 1, 1968 Page 34
* Claims Are Disputed The claim that the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ing cigarette flavor has boen e subject of controversy. : Among the most outspoken critics of the filter has beeniF Senator Warren G. Magnuson ON Washington, who has con- tended that its claims have been Reatly exaggerated. 5 Nenoul many governmental and privale health reports by, experts hae called cigarette, tar and hicothe health hazards, Columbia Univarsity, in a -D4 port on thev Shickman filter made public tha Wednesday, avoided making axy conclu- So far no United Sates ciga- rette companies are beliayed og be close to a contract fx the filter. Experts say that dones- tic companies need not fexr competion in this country from the Canadian cigarettes because of a 15-cent import duty on leach package. Pall Mall cigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana- dian concern.
sions.
stake in
:
research.
100% € - - .
v A
