-

SYMPTOMS AND THE INGINNOBIAN3TOEOIN IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43

e a cross-sectional investiganion in one building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validased
complaints associaied with the "sick building syndrome" questionnaire. The symptoms were more commoa le build-
were measured on e linear analog I questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system abso provided cooling and
Ar the same time, the micro-environment (environmental humidification. irrespective of the a of the I A
characteristics in the brearhing zone I I area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air
samples) a characierized 49 measuring temperenure, Karenb parametens : not described. Skov et a (1987) es-
relative humidiry, respirable papudms "sammopad 8 poure indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern Danish
bon dioxide, noise level, lighaing inensiry, relative ha town halls and 14 older control buildings. A level of i
midiry, and airflow. No relationship a seen berween toms was related 01 "feecing" factor (carpets, upholery.
a degree of sympioms and age. I or duration and horizontal surfaces) cad the "macro-moleculer I
of employment at the building or time nuads in che 1 I of dust. They abso demonstrated . relationship between
thn on a daily I Suanistically, complaints were the sumber of hours spent photocopying and using carbonless
significantly more frequent [ Supous I Envi- Adoo paper and the level of complaints. Other srudies bave
ronmental characteristics associaled wich * increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985)
complaint levels in chis group included decressed airfow T psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute
models, chere a an association benveen agandr ad- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome s mea
pended particulases and the levels of boch mucous I suring soxduls and enviroamental exposures. Robertson et
brane PwP rysemic complaints. Sanirfaction 1 a F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif.
I environment as predicted wopdsauad oferef ferences is the concentrations of eavironmental
alshough repression models E I t comp * building. E studied the rooms with the f compl

:

velociry and increased levels ngandraufo adpopuadms 8 indoor air quality complaints.

riculanes 1 dry-bulb semperature. In regression

Several studies have attempted 8 identify the actual

R nor

I
ventileted
naturally
agnin

clearty contribule o the
I a independent of chermal I -
insensiry I also associated 1
sudies of a sick building syndrome
L measures o identify predictors of complaints in

of symptoms, berween rooms is a mechanically and a

-
E

I 1 used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did I
hane strate . relationship between symptoms and E area -
I ples measuring dust E . "macro-molecular" traction,
Area samples is buildings E not be representative of
a exposures de different points de single I Physical
characteristics soch as windows and partitions, I
and sbelving may infuence air currents. Radiant I may

mulsiple exposures simuluancously and inchude psycho 5 E 1

indoor spaces.
INTRODUCTION

Complaints termed the "sick building syndrome" I lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, I pol-
led 6 numerous investigations in a last 15 years. They are hutants resuk from point sources, os they will be diluted a a
thought os occur primarily le newty constructed I 1 subject dm fartber removed from the source. The micro #
inps and, at keast is the past, were thought to be a to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem, . different exposure characteristies than the macro-enviroe
# variery of causes have been identifed le specife settings, ment of a building. la addition. all applied occupational and
inchuding inadequate temperature and relative bumidity 8 environmental heatth research that attempts 01 relate f to
trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds bealth effects suflers from the problem E I i penerally
and formaldehyde. microorganisms, environmental tobecco measured at several points in time and then extrapolated to <
smoke, pesticides, d entrainment of vehicle I 8 allow development of exposure classifications I decades
spent E contaminated air and boiler I Abers released I most heakth effects are messured a . single I of
from I linings. and office machine otfgases and odors these chronie exposures. Where the variability of I
A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom
et a 1984) 1 that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to bour, such a strategy mast tail.
(Robertson et al. 1985) was unable o1 identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the micro
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb semperarure (temper- eaviroament and set these characteristics de relation a a
ature), relative humidity. air velocity, formaldehyde, or pos level of individual complaints at . given point is time. This
itive or nepative ions between several rooms in a building report presents results of a crom-sectional investigation of a
with natural and - building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using . self-administered. I analog.
where both a of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-amesment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
E I . Amistant Prolessor of Medicine and el Indestrial and Enviroomental Heahh Sciences at the Unrveruty of I Schools
of Medicine and Public Heahh. a I - Direcor, Enviroomental Heahh and Salery, Carepe-Mellon Univeruty, Pirsburgh. PA.

(Kreiss and Hodgson 1984; Hodgson I Kreiss 1986).
marily o1 mechanical ventilation. a same proup of authors

results is greater than the difference in average samples, and
No investigations in the peer-reviewed literature I

o

Mciccrs IRPSCIS Susp