1 -
M 22 -
Puv 3s0
Carcinagenels vul 15 MI tI Fp2721-2725, 1OGI
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosaminn-1-3-pyridyl)-1-butandne and benzo(ajpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
C3420
chemopreventive agents
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Health Foundation. Valhalta NY 10595. USA
models examined to date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the A/I mouse because previous
The purpose of this study SEM to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer le smokers. Lung tumor induction in AJj mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to by Hfmdbybireamin1:03plb-1hebmees (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined and benzotalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice 2 evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastrie gavage (i-g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a aumber of Intraperitoneal injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and7.12-dimethylbenzialanthracene (9,10). either 9 or 61 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse ol evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The ig. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than "ds administration, (4.11.12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse can be replicated because l avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate thelnjectlon site and associated mortality, A dose-response (PEITC) ie an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 rai (11,13). mice killed 9 or 61 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect 01 tobacco of te. umol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (I). The have been expected extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important when given 49 the i.g. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either wcre complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chernopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 umol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking In addition. the model should be relatively rapid and subdoses i.g-, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we exomined tumor yields obtained dosing. This regimen induced 10.5+4.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP. given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethytisothiocyanate given 2 a prior i1 each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung prelimiaary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP thls study provlde a convenlent model for assessing the NNX was synthesized in the Americas Health Foundation Organic Synthesis efficacy of chemopreventive agents against Sunt cancer Facility. Its purity was establihed by HPLC a >997. BaP (931 purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-75A dirs containing sa corn oil, as previously 2 play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups ef 15 as sammarized in Table L At age 7 weeks. each mouse war kers: 4metylmimentnohi.dogyndyb-l-bznos (NNK*) treated by inraperitoneal (ip.) injection or by intragastric gavage tig) with and benzolalpyrene (BaP) e NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical in 0.I ml couonseed ol. NNK and BaP were boi carcinogen with organospeeificity for the lung in all rodent disselved in the 0.I ml uned for treatment Injections and gavages were carried *Abbreslations: NNK. AISNed1tessesusgegneys individuat dese wat one-cighth of the notal. Equimolar doses of NNK and BoP, benzolelpyrene: PEITC, phencihyl isethiocyanale: BITC, benzyl BaP were wsed le most of the combination 'sdeoit because the amounts of
whlch these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The AII mouse lung tumor mode! has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP in combination was establiched in the that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
Most previous studies in the A/ mouse have examined We sought 01 develop a model which could be used to
Comparisons of
and BaP given individually showed representatives of the lung
in tobacco smoke
Feti2
carcinogens
(I.
5.9:5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely induction by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inhiblting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
BITC (1989 (Agund and PEITC (934 (Aund were obtained from the Aldrich Chemical Company (Milwaukee. Wt), Cottonseed oll sas purchased from Female AJJ mice. age 3 wecks. were obtoined from The Jackson Labaratory (Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the The design ofthe bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1, The mice were divided out for 8 concecutive werks. The total doses are given in Table L Each NNK and total carcinogenie polycyelie hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke are
Sigma Chemical Co. (51 Louis, MO).
Introduction a
agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
a
isothiocyanait, ip. intriperitoncal, : introgastric gavage.
oOsford Univenity Press
2721
-
