Fufure
sense d airecuon and hoge from or - leaders," he says trom U.S. president to corporale executive, untversuy dean and head of the I charity drive. These themes have been resonating. explicitly and implicitly, in the presiden- tial campaign. Both President Bush and Gov. Clinton have tried to harness the widespread malaise among voters and offer hope for the future, Mr, Clinton by invoking "change' at every opportunity, and Mr. Bush by promising that his poll- cles areon the brink of yielding significant A close look at several people who have seen their confidence in the future erode suggests why there is such widespread disillusionment with the American dream. But not everyone Is grim. Those who have come from the poorest backgrounds or encountered the greatest hardships seem to retain the most hope. 'Everyone Seems Defeated" When Mark Donnelly came of age in the 1960s, no problem seemed insoluble. In 1962, as a 20-year-old Army private, Mr. Donnelly went 10 Oxford, Miss., to protect James Meredith. whose enrollment at the University of Mississipp! sparked race riots. For a week. Mr. Donnelly stood outside Mr. Meredith's dormitory with a rifle guarding him against attack. One student spat on him. he recalls. Mr. Donnelly also served in Vietnamf But after his discharge. he marched on Washington to -oud test the war and be- came a regional 8 ganizer for Vietnam Vets Against the War. While attend- ing Columbia Uni- versity, Mr. Don- nelly blocked police from entering a building after stu- dents had seized it. "We were a gen- eration that had hoped the world could be a better Mark Donneily place, : says Mr. Donnelly, now a 50-year- old vice president at Chemical Bank in New York City. "We naively thought that problems were solvable. Today, his view is different. The lems he sees - the budget deficit, strato- spheric health-care costs, the AIDS epi- demic and deficient schools - seem insu- perable. The assumption that prosperity would cure social ills has hit the wall of reality in the form of intractabie urban poverty and a fury that erupted in Los Angeles this spring. The proportion of households with annual incomes under $15,000 was lower in 1990, after adjustment for inflation. than in 1980 or 1970, but It remained stubborniy close to 25%. "I've become very cynical about the AmIIqe of our system to bring about change, . Mr. Donnelly says. "There's a real malaise in America right now. Everyone seems defeated. You no longer belleve anything's going 0 get done. Though he concedes that his current
Imperject Voices of a Generation Fear for the Status Of American Dream Despite Their Success, Many Feel Their Parents Had More CauseforOptimism Yet Outsiders Still Want In By CLARE ANSBERRY And THOMAS F. O'BOYLE Staff Reporters o/TwE W E STREET JOURNAL For many Americans, the future seems about as secure as a dandelion puff. An entire generation now reaching middle age is questioning whether they or their children can do better than their parents. Job security went out with three- piece suits. and pundits have coined a new term. dumpies - for downwardly mobile professionals. Today, both mother and father work, not tobe rich, but to send kids 8 college. The complicated family seene looks more like an Andy Warhol canvas than a Norman Rockwell portrait. Statistically, Americans, both rich and poor, are improving their lots. Their buying power has doubled since the 1950s, and their standard of living remains the highest in the world. Others outside the U.S. still belleve people can improve their lot in America: The current wave of immi- grants is the largest since earty this cen- Even so, many Americans despair about the future. In part that's because, in relative terms, America's standard of liv- ing isn'tas far ahead of everyone else's as : once was: other countries are catching 'dn Nor is the U.S.rate of growth as rapid as it once was. And even some affluent Americans have discovered, as their par ents warned, that money doesn't buy hap piness. The same numbers I one 5 three Americans - told researchers at the Na- tional Opinion Research Center they were "very happy" in both 1957 and 1990. No amount of money ensures happiness, con- cludes David G. Myers in his book "The Pursuit of Happiness": rather, happiness is satisfaction with whatever one has. Warren Bennis, a business professor at the University of Southern California, has another explanation for this widespread and Mahler-like melancholy. Recalling a sunny phrase R the 1930s "the long sum- mer of the future" - he says today that feeling seems S be missing. "We want a The Wall Street
economic growth.
tury.
prob-
Journal, 8/1 1/92
-
