e
THE MIGRATION OF TOBACCO-SPECIFIC NITROSAMINES INTO THE SALIVA OF CHEWERS OF NICOTINE-CONTAINING CHEWING GUM Swedish National Food Administration, Box 622, S-751 26 Uppsala, Sweden (Received 14 November 1989; renisions received 22 May 1990)
B.-G. OSTERDAHL
Ahstract-In many countries nicotine-containing chewing gum (Nicorette*) is used to help to break the habit of smoking. Saliva was collected every Smin from chewers of nicotine chewing gum and analysed for tobacco-specific nitrosamines. Detectable levels of tobacco-specific nitrosamines were found in all samples collected between 5 and 15min after chewing had started. The levels of N-eitrosonornicotine ranged from 0.4 to 191 ng/g of saliva and thuse for the uns of N-nitrosoanatabine plus N'-nitrosoan- abasine from 1.3 to 46ng/g. swo0mng-1-(-pp3Nd-gHHlOsmmonm-N-4ApN was not detected in the saliva. The nicotine chewing gum was found to contain dn 01 380 ng tobacco-specific nitrosamines/g of
chewing gum.
INTRODUCTION
and stored at the same temperature. The sodium
Tobacco-specific N-nitrosamines (TSNA), derived hydroxide (rcagent grade), deionized water and from tobacco alkaloids, are the most abundant strong dichloromethane used were checked to ensure the carcinogens identified in tobacco and tobacco smoke absence of substances that might interfere with the (Hecht and Hoffmann, 1988). N-Nitrosonornicotine determination of nitrosamines. Reagent blanks were (NNN) and 4-(N-methyl-N-nitrosamino)-1-G3. analysed for TSNA and no interfering peaks could be Hoffmann, 1988). The TSNA also include N'-nitro- (numbers I and 2) and two males (numbers 3 and 4), soanabasine (NAB), which is weakly carcinogenic aged 34-51 yr were studied. All of them had been (Fig. 1; Hilfrich et al., 1977) and N-nitrosoanatabine smokers for 16-30yr, and normally smoked 15-25 (NAT), which docs not appear to be carcinogenic cigarettes per day. No. 1 had stopped smoking and used in many countries, for example "uapans 'un8 the before and every 5 min during Nicorette chewing. USA, Canada and the UK, as a prescription drug to About 2-9 on saliva samples were collected in screw- help smokers stop smoking. The purpose of the capped test-tubes, weighed, and Iml 1 M-sodium present study was to investigate the possible TSNA hydroxide was added as soon as possible thercafter. content of Nicorettes and to determine whether these The samples were analysed within 901 min. None of substances are extracted and/or formed in vioo in the the volunteers smoked for 15min before chewing Chemicals. NNN, NAT, NAB and NNK were gifts ported method, with minor modifications (Osterdahl from Dr J. D. Adams, Naylor Dana Institute for and Slorach, 1988). The alkaline saliva sample was Discase Prevention, American Health Foundation, placed on an Extrelut column (10-15cm long, 2cm Valhalla, NY, USA. Nicorettes was obtained from i.d.), and the test-tube in which the sample had been AB LEO (Helsingborg, Sweden) and the batches used collected was rinsed with 3 x 1.5 ml water, which was were between 1 and 4 years old. Dichloromethane also placed on the column. After 10-15min, the (analytical grade) was obtained from Riedel-de-Haen column was eluted with dichloromethane (4 x 25 ml). AG (Scelze-Hannover, FRG). Extrelut was pur- The eluate was concentrated to about 0.3 ml in a chased from E. Merck AG (Darmstadt, FRG), water-bath at 55°C and, finally, to dryness under a and was dried overnight at about 170'C before use gentle stream of nitrogen at room temperature. The N-nitrosoanabasine NAT= N-nitrosoanatabine an isothermal gas-liquid chromatography (GLC; NNK - 4(N-metyl-N-sirosoamis)-1-3-pynisb-1 Varian 2700, Palo Alto, CA, USA) interfaced with a butanone; NNN= N-nitrosonornicotine TÉA - Thermal Energy Analyzer (TEA; Model 502, Thermo Thermal Energy Analyzer; TSNA I tobacco-specific Electron Corp., Waltham, MA, USA). The furnace
observed.
Pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) are the strongest car- cinogens among the TSNA (Fig. 1; Hecht and
Subjects. Four healthy volunteers, two females
had used Nicorettes during the
2 months.
et
(Fig. : Hoffmann al., 1984). Nicorette", a nicotine-containing chewing
preceding
is Collection of saliva. Saliva samples were collected
saliva.
Nicorette*, The weight of the chewing gums was Extraction of TSNA from salica. The TSNA con- tent of saliva was determined by a previously re-
about 1g
MATERIALS AND METHODS
residue was dissolved in 001 ul dichloromethane. Analysis OfTSNA. Analyses were carried out using was removed from the TEA and connected to the
Abbreviations: GLC - gas-liquid chromatography; NAB -
N-nitrosamines.
