May 16 96. 8:44
P.11
Chicago Tribune
MAY. 91 9661
Philip Morris, UST offer plan to curb teen use of tobacco Proposal would prohibit FDA regulation,
'loosies' : ban By Barbara Sullivan TRIBUNE STAFP WAMER Philip Morris Cos and UST h om ol the largest 16bacco comnanies. went on the ollen- sive Wednesday, proposing sweeping legislation to curb teen tobacco use. The proposals, which would include a ban on vending machine and 21ase312-913UT isales and impose curbs on - advertising. go further than restrictions sought by. the Food and Drug Administration. the companies said. The quid pro quo, however. is that the yaa be prohibited from any regulation of tobacco prod- ucis. "It there's FDA involvement. the deal is not on the table," corporate affairs. are not meant as a compromise, and restricting tobacco usage. this de a solution." beneficial
machine sales
and vending 3/1
Aret snaat
€ photo
said Ellen Merlo, Philip Morris Steve Pamish. a Philip Morris USA senior vice president of Cos. senior vice president. at a Merlo also said the proposals news conference Wednesday. or frst step toward rapproche- pany and UST is the biggest ment. with the government's maker of snuff and chewing mounting push toward regulating tobacco. The two companies. "This way beyond a com support from other tobacco promise." RTe Merlo said. "We think companies, said their proposal Merlo said further that the industry fund spent over a five- proposals are so comprehensive year period to help implement that unilateral action iq Philip the legislation. Morris and UST would not be Some anti-amoking advocates, "We couldn't imnplement these posals as nothing more than a actions on our own. without leg- blatant smoke screen to keep islation." she said. "If only one the FDA out of the picture. or OMI companies participated. "They realtze that the FDA is Phultp Morris. maker of Marl- kids from the blandishments (of boro cixarettes among others. S the tobacco industry) and they
which have not yet received would include a $250 million however. saw the tobacco pro- most serious about protecting Sez CIGARETTTS PAGE 2
there would be no impact." the world's biggest tobacco com
