yx
E/u/SP
JHT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira Nrw York Times Servier
wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars -
made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even in recent
($2.86) compared with 22 panies can advertise on TY after cigarettes and an aggressive campaign. Television gifts," Er EL was out- lewod is the States in 1971. junior high tiatrtan oid Cigarette packages sold in 3yoars and Uani must carry - label MF sake 2 health, don't smoke too to Ema with than the health-warning labels fou os much because of the adver- tising as because they are of better manufactur- qualty and taste beiter. American
TAIPEI - The Mariboro COW- dn salcs of $119 million. In 1986, trade talks between the United L Taiwan dollan E cents)fora boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Siates and Taiwan. Wang Chien. pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghng from his mouth, has come 10 eign cigarettes Dow hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan'sdeputy minister of The limits 00 cigarette advertis town. His picture adoms kiocks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, regisiered a ing in Japan are more liberal. Com-
and dod-pus-mom stores through- uo cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest. gaitar-playing. pep-suvaf promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted This frenetic, fast-growing 04 cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that billion cigarettes last dropped long-suandiog restrictions. are Dow smoking How can nubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? It's O.K. lo To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy a $16 uomq trade ialand, and tbat has created E furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year that." Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled American cigarette tbe American companies of entic the past year. The market share ing teen-agers uake da moking. more than 1 . charge the American companies from 3 percent percent s 1986, The songunta-adminisered dicts that it could grow 9 11 8 20 salcs pitch. operation that had monopolized percent Kq 1992. .preseure from Washingion. In the alcohol. year since stiff restrictions on for. "This really burts our cign cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw have soared, -peadod growth American man- ERLSS wacturens ata time when sales S export Taiwan? Younger laws s way 'da
ouI this city, next to posters ol peroent. b Winston of cigarettes. tion of nearly 20 million people amoked 34
amusement placesto 5:50 P.M. and are now conducting
most for of the in American growth ly because
3 said recently. "Many achool- advertising of
both Tuwan and Jepan school students - 12,
year and for the first time, E According lo the Brown P Wi- rette companies promote ciga- roughly transiated, says, "For the brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting s Si billion in new sales. the United States. But surplus those people mandated in the United States. Wacturers have essentially intro InJapan, which has . population' are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe companies American paonp cigarette advertising to the of 120 million and where people, man, human being.you woo't do cigarettes are selling " in Taiwan
made ls America, not Taiwan. all American-made
cigarettes occupy the whole markets. We en- much" a warning much milder
American cigarettes increased 6 vigorously deny there is any-
2 botly deay.
EBE last ErE
thing wrong with the way they are cigarettes are made of blended to promoting their producta and bacco and have less which tar than Tai-
are not
Department of Agriculture pro thry have no plans to change KE wieese bleoded. cigarettes,
Tbey are not sllowed to advertise a small stores where cigarettes are hold, a well as through promo a feelings." legisiator. tions. Cigarette manufacturer may dom cxocods 200,000. le E
the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials tbey resent on television or in nempapers. Nor A government agreed o allow markets o producta that éndanger Tbey can advertise only through .others into the bunness only under people's health, like cigarettes and posienshung near cigaretie racks or a American cigarettes B Taiwan I.. tbe United Shau-kong Sustes docs not en- also place 120 ada a year 6 maga- the United States are way down and femalcs are smoking 1 a9 Before last i forcign ciga- and a number of anti-smoking causc of American E They bire rettos accountod F leas than 1 According to the U.S. Depart- arettes froe in sonputo k's Kaa cigarettes, banaed imports at A msbet R Agriouhture, people B Tai- difficult lor young boys 1 resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed a sell
tised, altbough it does now.
American pressure 59 open their have they pushed to do s0, they say.
much- courage its people to amoke, why rines, cach of whosc ciroulation acl- young attractive po-ma4-6! girla cent o tbe market. Taiwan Suuwon short ckirts o1 give mp de posed strict quotas on forcipa and then it becomes à habit. It'i cigarettes and imposed rtin tariffs.
e
&4
imaoral."
: reeult, imported cigareties cost
