BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
a
Area stores
stung
for cigarette sales
by MARK BABIONE For tho Delly Camera I kids. ka
referring to the Increased enforce- penalty ToF selling tobacco dor ml: tried a Ang thie cigarelles. The
mont.
Doulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky enouab OF nesses this week during a crack. get'caught were issueda summone- down on selling cigarettes to ml to appoar a court. The maximum The sting. conducted on the eve -noris E $200 fine of- the American Cancer Soclety's ThO Supa involved two tcams. Great American Smokeout, was T Each included u uniformed omcer. tended to educate cierks that it's #1 a piain clothes amcer. and two legal 9 sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School girts, Who Pollce targeted gas stations, con: giris' parenis signed a waiver al vénience, drug, grocery and "P lowing themla tale partin the.op: - Taw has never beer enforced, pres Tne juvenlles were told not to Jopmnog Police OMcer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk 1 sell "We're letting the stores know had to show identification.
oounl swres. Unul recently, the eration. this le going to happen," ahc sald,
the cigarettes. and, If asked, they (Gee BOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors At the Conoco station, 3000 2620 Broadway, began 01 cry 28uh SL, one of the girls asked when she WaS istred a Sum-, the cashlar for a pack of Mart mons, aUs raid ahg was a stur boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- suop. and couldnt RHord ouT ness, s plain clothes, poos UL court costs. Haukeness pot -e1 iina-hahind her to witnese thc codgole her, saying she could:" A placard near the cath regis. the Disiriet Altorney to do com, . ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice Instrad of paying clerk asked to see some identifi- Tho clerks, not the store Own- cation. The buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the,: she WAS only 41 Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it 01 punish. cd at the license, aet it down on stores or clerks," she said. "Al: the counter, and sold her the though, when you see clerks ciy:" After they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted ST stepped da and identifed him aloros and clerks - ail bur - eelf as a police officer. Manka recelved summonses. came in and wrote the clerk a Thie wook's operation was "When I bee them ask for an year. Tha Arst sting. conducted E I think they're going to a ur September, targeted 16 stores fuce the cale," Haukeness sald. und 15 clerks received Rum
(From Page (OI
The clerk at Colony Market,
transaction.
Aqmard work out a deal-with
No 'at No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, - driver's license. which showed court coste.
: a
cigarettes. summons.
ing, you inight think otherwise. secund tobacco sale stine - the:
"But they never do."
monses.
