Genetic Epidemiology 5:265-275 (1988)
Estimating Genetic Parameters of Survival Distributions: A Multifactorial Model
Joanne M. Meyer and Lindon J. Eaves
Department of Human Genetics, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond For 2 number of genetically influenced illnesses, age of onset is correlated between relatives. is some cases, age of onset also serves # an index of an individual's inherited liabiliry to an illness. Typically, survival models for age of onset distri- butions do not allow for these effecte. We have used the gamma distribution as the basis of a model which specifies genetic variabiliry in a8e of onset. Specifically, we allow the hazard frequency parameter of the gamma distribution o be a monotonic function of an individual's inherited liabiliry o an illness. under various gamuma models indicate that age of onset correlations may be strikingly different from correlations in liabiliry. Maximum likelihood estimation procedures were used 1o obtain parameter estimates from simulated data sets and 01 deiermine whether le ie possible o discriminate hetween gamma processes of different order. The results for 1,000 pairs of twins 00S) monorygotic and 500 dirygoric) gave parameter estimates that were fairly accurate but that decreased in precision as the order of the gamma process increased. We discuss the effect chis may have on inferences made about age of onset. Key words: age of onset correlations, survival models, gamma distribution
rolate
Simulations
INTRODUCTION
Genetic analyses of illnesses and behaviors showing a variable age of onset require a knowledge of the cumulative probability of onset by given ages. Some approaches [Weinberg. 1915; Stromgren, 1938; Risch, 1983) derive this probability from prior age of onset distributions. Others [Elston, 1973; Heimbuch et al., 1980; Risch, 1983] estimate parameters of a cumulative age of onset distribution from the data. When the data allow its use, the latter method de more appealing since specific
Reccived for publication January 11, 1988: revision accepted April 22, 1988.
Address reprint request te Joanne Meyer, Department of Human Genetics, Box 33 Medical College of
Virginia, Richmond, VA 23298. 1988 Alan R. Liss, Inc.
