HK82223022

Life Sciences Vol. 15. PP. 1291-1300
Printed in the y.S.A.

Perganon Press

MTAROLISM or DOOlalmne 2  - - FRON
TISBUES B PRPCOLANT Aen PITAL MAMNTERE
i Y. Wang, Ronald a Rasmuneen, and T. Timothy Crocker
Cancer Research Institute, Univereity of California, San Praneieco, and Depart-
I ef community aed Invironmental Medieine, Univereity of California, Irvine*.
(Received in final for 26 August 1974)
I
Pretreatmest of hansters vith benzo (a)pyrene (BaP) greatly increased
a S vitre metaholiam of E T lueg aierononns i prognant I
atare, and a lese effeet E the metabolien of BaP by iiver niere-
I The produetion of various metaholites of : s lung miere-
sonos E inereaned to different extenta: 3-hydroxy-Bar (3-CH-BAP)
E ene of the najor matabolites, a netabolic yielde of :
dilptrodilgirer-ter (9,10-dio1) and 7,8-diel vore incrensed sore
than that of P 4,5-d101. In the ehse of liver nicrosomes, only the
yielde of 9,10-dioi and 7,8-diol ware increseed ovar the contrel
levels, The presence of cyclohexene exide in the incubation 6
tures decreased the production of the diolo. Basal-level enryme
activitles in placental, fetal liver, and fetal akin microsones in
metsholizine E vere very low. Pretrestnent of pregant hainsters
with BaP Indaced saP-metahelising enzymes in fetal tisrue 2-3 fold.
Densotalpren CDaP1 ie . carcinesen and anviremmental contaninant that is
found in coal tar, nineral ol1, a exhaust, tohecco smoke, anoked foode, etc.
(1). In vitro sratiea shoved that netabolie activation of BaP ie required for
ita intaractios with proteina and nuclele acide (2,3). Farller studies with
tat 1ivar preparations 14,5) and hanster liver microsones (6,7) showed that BAP
le metahelined mainly 8 phenolie and dihgdredihydrewy (alol) derivatives, an
9 quinones I ere ensynatie or air oxidatinn producte 2 enatable phenolie
metabolitas (4,5) as well aB nome unidentified nere polar metabolites, The
motabolies of Bat has generally been nessured Aq the production ef 3-hydroxy-
BaP (3-ON-MaP sieh le afte ene of the major metaholites in vitro (3). 3-OH-
Dap ie torie to eultured eelle (91, but it shovs vory 1tetle interaction vith
DRUA in vitro (6) and has not been shown 3 8 carcinonenic. & the ather hand,
Keregion epowides ef related polyeyelie aronatie hylrocartens (PA)bind 8 cell-

1291