True-Taise Questions S the Chenistry and MyrthsPtunlaiigu.st.bes and Flevor 1. TF Sone nodern workers suggest that nccurate monaurenent of vibrational frequency (in the far intrared, for exanple) of an unknown odorant will pernlt prediction of its quallty and intenslty. T F No elenentel substance, not even halides or ozone hos eny odor; Instead they react with the nucose forning new products whlch are smelled; but T F Sone odorents have steric or vibrational propertles which force the concluslon that they are odorless whon they are not. I1. T F Present evldence strongly suggests thet different parts of the olfactory receptor ares, IIke tho retina in the eye, are queilty-specifie. TF Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor TF No one yet has a fire clue as to the critical relntion between the molecule nnd the receptor which permits en odor perception. TF The greater the secretion rate of eucous or selive, the higher thelr pH, and both pHi and tomperature Influence the quallty of sensation in the 111. TF The ideal instrumentel detector would respond to odors in the sano quantitetive range ns does an onleal or human subject. TF Such an Ideat detector hes not been developed. IV. : Iman observors with hend In fixed position cen by virtue of the two Indopentent nostrils eesily discern stereo seall effects, 1.e. they can tell whotler à odoront is at the right or left hand, much os one uses his two cars in locating the source of a sound. +1 For certaln musk-liko compounds, forty molecules are sufficient to trigger a hunon olfactory response. 'A TF Adaptation to one olfactory qunlity does not significantly reduce sensitivity to any other dissiei lar quality, but does reduce sensi tivity to all sisilor quelities. TF By employing a siallerities nethod of conparing qualitles, one con now obtein Identity and degrees of difference without recourse to trouble- vi. TF Hunger lowers thresholds slightly to some food qualltios but not for TF It is now possible to loentify the Intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull sieply by expert examination of the electrophysiological record taken from appropriate odor or taste neurons. 1 F Electrical stimulation of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and e "eetallic" or "alkaline" quality. T d Direct electrical stimuletlon of the olfactory senso has nover yet beon successfully eccompllshed. VIL. TF Although total anosela is rare In humans and ageusia even rarer, there is evidence that In analogy to color vision deflciences, sone people are Insensitive to (only certain) qualities while hoving normal sensitivity to others, F F Toplcal anesthetics applled to the tongue show that different qualities T F Certaln endocrine disense entitles make It possible for sone people quite sensitively to "snell" such "odorless" sutistances es sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both teste and odor can be reduced to noreel by manipulation of endocrine lovels. TF Premenopausal wonon at the time of ovulation find certaln odors extrenely disegreeable whlle at other tines In the menstrunl cycle these same odors
sone elenents possess taste.
surfece In order to be smelled.
chenicn! senses.
sone words. others,
>
of taste disappear af different rates.
they will judge quite pleasant.
or A -
