CIR uid

CELL REGULATION Vol. 2, 373-381, May 1991

Activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors
inhibits cell cycle progression of small cell

lung carcinoma

Carol L Williams and Vanda A. Lennon
Departments of Laboratory Medicine
and Pathology, Immunology, and Neurology
Mayo Clinic and Foundation
Rochester, Minnesota 55905

model for studying the dysregulation of cell cy-
cle progression. This highly metastatic tumor
accounts for 25-30% of all lung cancers and
causes >25 000 deaths annually in the United
States (Birrer and Minna, 1989). SCLC cells ex-
press receptors for several autocrine growth
factors, including gastrin-releasing peptide
(Cuttitta et al., 1985; Carney et al., 1987), insulin-
like growth factor-I (IGF-I) (Macauly et al.,
Nakanishi et al., 1988b), and a transferrin-like
molecule (Nakanishi et al., 1988a; Vostrejs et
erates different intracellular second messen-
In addition to receptors for peptide growth
factors, some SCLC cell lines express musca-
rinic (Sorenson et al., 1983; Cunningham et al.,
1985; Williams and Lennon, 1990a) and nicotinio
1990). The ability of ecetylcholine receptors to
regulate cell proliferation has recently been
on our finding that activation of M, muscarinic
drolysis of phosphoinositides (PI) and inhibits
voltage-gated Ca?* channel activity in SCLC
cells, we proposed that MACHR activation may
affect SCLC proliferation (Williams and Lennon,
1990a). We report here that MAChR activation
inhibits DNA synthesis induced by serum, bom-
besin, insulin, or IGF-I in SCLC cells. MAChR
agonists arrest SCLC cells in both S and G,/M
phases of the cell cycle. mAChR activation ap-
pears to disrupt a common event induced by
transduction by growth factor receptors.
mAChR activation decreases DNA synthesis
cells cultured in serum (Figure 1). This inhibition

We prevlousty reported that activation of musca- (GRP, homologous to amphibian bombesin)
activation couses exponentially growing SCLC cells al., 1988). Activation of these receptors gen-
concomitant with a decrease in DNA synthesis. Cell gers, which must converge on a common point

rinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChR) ofM, subtype
causes hydrolysis of phosphoinositides and inhibits
voltage-gated Ca* channel activityin small cell lung
carcinome (SCLC) cells. We now report that MAChR
to arrest in S and G,/M phases of the cell cycle,
cycle progression and DNA synthesis resume when
mAChR are down-regulated. In serum-starved
SCLC cells, MAChR activation inhibits DNA synthe-
sis Induced by serum, bombesin, insulin, or insulin-
like growth factor-1. The finding that DNA synthesis
exposure of cells to growth factors indicates that
decreased signal transduction by growth factor re-
activation disrupts a common event that is induced

1988;

to induce SCLC proliferation.

de inhibited even when mAChR are activated after acetylcholine receptors (Maneckjee and Minna,
ceptors le not the mechanism of MACHR-mediated recognized (Conklin et al., 1988; Ashkenazi et
growth inhibition. Our data suggest that mAChR al., 1989; Maneckjee and Minna, 1990). Based
by different growth factors and de fundamental for acetylcholine receptors (MAChR) causes hy-

cell cycle progression.
Introduction

In normal cells, the transition from proliferation
01 terminal differentiation is marked by with-
drawal from the cell cycle and an inability to
reenter the cycle in response to growth factors.
Transformed cells do not undergo this transi-
tion, but constitutively remain in the cell cycle;
rupted (Heldin and Westermark, 1984; Wein-
stein, 1987; Kraus et al., 1988). Small cell lung
carcinoma (SCLC)' provides a clinically relevant
- Abbreviations: GRP.gastrin-relesing peptide; ICse. hal-
factor-l; MAChR, muscarinic acetylcholine receptors: PBS,
phosphate-buffered saline; PI, phosphoinositides; SCLC.
o 1991 by The American Society for Cell Biology

the regulation of cell cycle progression is dis- different growth factors, which follows signal

Resuits

maximal inhibitory concentration; IGF-I, insulin-like growth by cells growing exponentially in serum

Carbachol decreases

H-thymidine uptake by

small cell lung carcinoma.

373