LOS ANGELES TIES Los Angeles, Californin October 20, 1954 n been proved. lale Iniversity
hairil uudn the premise that hination ' a partirular tvpe a nnnectien hetwieen riea- in each nf:he three categnries Calls re L smoking and disease ha: hae alrcadv produred 'a sale Might Take Six Months one it is, so all can be made Dr. a Cuyler Hammond. that way. 1f not, the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Carrnce Cnok Littie, complete statistical study to chairman of the scientife ad- date. said that "some say we vianrv board and seient fie di should wait for more defini rector o: the Toiarro Indus tive evidence before develop try Resrarch Committee, de- ing R safe cigarette. but no les which he helieves wonlr nne hatsaid just what the de- produre some nf "the defni finitive eviience wnud be." live evidence" S waich Dr Hr sand he "took issue" with Hammond referred. In his taik 1n the Ameriran "We wiil tackle eimultan system was more important, line of the industrv's researeh migh: prove surceasfal in xix do not have today the experi nonths, "with luck," he said menta! evidenee that wilper-
cigarette J1, so. scientifie re- search should prove which should And one, "since ple like to smoke eigarettes." seribed the outlines nf std- Tackle Unknewns
Expert for
atatistician
peo-
Safe Cigaretfes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming
NEW YORK, Ort. U1 (LP) this viewnoint,
The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eously manv of the unknowne arette smoking with both Hammond xaid the relation in this Eeld of tobaccn lise in lung cancer and heart dis- ship nf rigarette xmoking to relation to tumin health," te ease is "overw.helming" and the heart and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitive once about developing "a safe health, than the relationship Andings in an area where cigarette. : a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to much suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find "a safe cigarette" from been done. The nrogram nf meeting cf the American the viewpoint ef the heart the bnard recngnizes tha: we tife advisory board of the There are various types nl gardinz the raure and rfert Tobacco Industry Research tnbacen, there are varinus relationshin hetween rnv rone Committee ansounced some of types R filters, and there are mental factors, including the details nf LUR scicatific re- varioux sonb.uyet n! curing The most important
Cancer Society today. At the xame time the scien-
Outlines Described
mit scientifie eonclesions Po. snoking and lune eancer current lung cancer rase: in 10 medical centers in the Eni ed States and Canada
srarch program
which tobaren, he Raid, and it may
nrnjert
de he thar some fortuitoris rom- set up was a direet acudy - nf
LOS ANGE LES EYAWINES Los Angeles, California October 20, 1954
It will include numerous studles of humans, including emotional habits of smokers. as well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspeets of the research were disclosed today. The apecitio research grants, financed Aq the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY ON TOBACCO NEW YORK. Oct. 19.-UP A broad abc point study seek ing kmowledge whether eigareta or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards was announced today. It ia the first announcement of a big research program headed by the sclentific ad- visory board of the Tobacco In. dustry Research Committer
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
