180 East End Avanue Ncw MONKIGA York10028 Telophone (212) C28-6300
-
American Health Foundation
BOARD OFFICERS CF AND TAUSTEES David 4 Mahoney, Chairman President Nonan Simon, Inc. Emest L. Wynder, M.Di, Pretident Thomas 1 Ross, Jr., Sacretary Vice Presiden: Amarican Airlines, Inc. Warner d Cosgrova, Jr, Treasurer Partner E.2 Shieics Company Trustees: Louis v. Aronson, II Prasident Ronson Corporation Mrs. Chanes A. Dana Frederie U Dacker Prosicent Dacker Communications, Inc. Senior Walter E. Panner Hanson Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. George James, M.D. Dean The iunori Sinai Schooi of Medicine william J. Levist Chairman of the Board Levitt & Sons, Inc. G. wetism Mcore Fielderest Prescent Milis,Ine. JeseahM. Murha Presicent Sandgran - Murha, Ine. Robant Maxwali R. M. Pauley R:bb Partner Stroock & Strosck a Lavan Erecutive David L Davies. Vite Presidant Javits a Javits General Counset
July 7, 1970
G. F. Todd, Esq. Tobacco Research Council Glen House, Stag Place London, S.W.1 England
Dear Mr. Todd:
In recent talks with Dr. Carl G. Baker, Director of the National Cancer Institute, the desirability of forming an international study group concerned with research into tobacco and health problems was discussed. This letter is to invite you on behalf of your organization to participate in this The proceedings will aim at providing the relatively few active investigators in tobacco. and health research programs with an opportunity to discuss freely current and future research prograns with the intent of reaching common objectives more quickly. The group will be composed of investigators primarily involved in tobacco and health research oriented towards producing less harmful smoking products. The partici- pants must be both willing and able to share with other investigators what is being learned from their current activities and openly discuss plans for future research in the field. It is thought that by bringing such a dnox6 of experts together to review ongoing studies and to plan future investigations jointly less harmful tobacco products will be available sooner and costly research projects will not be duplicated unneces- sarily. The meetings would be held at yearly intervals with the different organizations acting as host.
information and study group.
