WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRISUNE
D. 25,605 - S. 49,326
WACO NETROPOLITAN AREA
MAR S 636!

F.C Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard-- Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission from going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, It
dnes not scem right or logical that one medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer while
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC sald 1E is proposing to refuse licenses
to broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising
because of evidence that smoking is injurious to hcalth
and the FCC has an obligation a protect the public
intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigser than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals to do
es they please so long as they don't harm another.
Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that if you don't mention something, maybe e won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Hlorida Democret, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com-
merce Com.mitice, snid in reference to the proposed
FCC rule that the ngency had overstepped the bounds
of its nuthority. He said he doubts that FCC has
any right 01 tell an advertiser what he could not
say in his advertisements. Rogers said Congress will
take a close Icok at the whole question o! rezulations
on lelevisinn and radio ndvortising' content, nol only
as 01 the Federal Commumications Commission but
in regard to Fcderal Trade Cominission praclices as
The stakes involved extend beyond the business
of broadcasling. They 03 to the heart of whether
government burcaus should he allowed to o2 beyond

advertising.
-

billboards and counter

L newspapers, magazines,

Hazardous to Your Health.'

hurt you and will disappear.

well.
2

tho linits of due process and thc law.