EXPERMENTAL PARASITOLOOY 70, 111-113 (1990)
MINIREVIEW
Viruses of Protozoan Parasites JEAN L. PATTERSON
Division of Infectious Discases, Children's Hospital and Department of Microbiology and Moleçular Generics, Harvard Medical Schoot. Boston. Massachusets 02115, U.S.A. PATTERSON, J. L. 1990. Viruses of protozoan parasites Experimental Parasitolog) 70, The study of bacteriophages and viruses has pro- rus-like particles does not conciusiveiy prove that a vided important leads in our understanding of the con- virus has been discovered. It is also important to con- trol of gene expression, RNA processing. and transla- sider the question: How does one isolate a lytic agent tion. The eariy work with bacteriophages enormously from an infecting microorganism? Presumably, in the assisted in the development of modem molecular bac- in virro culturing of infectious organisms, those that teriology Since they ane by definition obligate -red survive are resistant to cocultivating lytic agebts. sites of the eucaryotic cell, viruses have been essential Therefore one can only isolate nonlytically infected or in helping to elucidate eucaryotic gene regulation. persistently infected organisms. It appears that all vj- They must conform to all the prerequisites that allow ral systems of protozoan parasites, studied to date, for gene expression within a host and, not surprisingly, have accomplished just this. There have been several many of the models underlying present concepts of reports of the molecular characterization of viruses in eucaryotic gene regulation are based on experiments parasitic protozoa and these characterization: are crit- originally done with animal viruses. For example. ical in establishing the existence of a viral system. RNA splicing was first discovered ls adenovirus (Ber- Wang and Wang (1986a) reported the presence of a get et al. 1977) and ironically much of our knowledge double-stranded (ds) RNA virus in Giardia lamblia. In of the function 5 translation of the MRNA cap struc general, all of the work on the nature of RNA viruses ture is based on work with poliovirus, a virus wbich in protozoans has been derived from vira) moleçules does not have cap (sce Ehrenfeld 1982). Furthermore, isolated from the infected parasite. Tbe double- studies with vesicular stomatitis virus (ASA) have stranded RNA virus .S G. lamblia is no exception. An given interesting insights into MRNA ribonucleopro- associated nucleic acid found in the infected parasite tein complexes (Adam et al. 1986). The understanding appeared to he approximately 7 kb. Susceptibility of of some DNA virus' ' tissue tropism has delineated the ribonucleases in low a and insensitivity in high salt molecular basis of tissue specific gene expression. supported the hypothesis that it was double-stranded. factors and enhancers (Freund et al. 1987; Gloss et al. could be found assoçiated with the nuclear fraction. 1987). The successful use of viruses as moiecular tools Electron micrographs sbowed that the virus had an and models bas been facilitated by tbeir small genome estimated size of 33 am. The RNA could be labeied size and small number of genes, a well as by the un with 37p-labeied pCp at the 3 end with T4 RNA ligase usual abundance of viral transcripts and proteins 5 and used as a probe and therefore was not circular. infected cells. Tbese considerations highlight the po- There was a major protein band estimated at a molec- tential value of viruses for the study of parasitic or- ular weight of 66,000 Da. 2 an added advantage, the ganisms. Indeed. the lag le our understanding of gene virus couid be used to infect other strains of Giardia Early experiments in the quest for viruses of para- parasitic protozoan, Trichomona vaginalis (Wang examination (Molyneux 1974; Molyneux and linear double-stranded structure of 1.5 pm in length, Heywood 1984; Croft and Molyneux 1979). Although with no apparent hairpins or loops. Later this doubie- this method is common, the end result is frequently stranded RNA was found to be between 5 and 6 kb and frustration. More importantly, the appearance of vi- associated with a virus (Wang and Wang 1986b). This
111-113. e 19 Academie Pvess. Ine
function tissue of
Subcellular fractionation indicated that the dsRNA
such a the
specific transcription
regulation of parasites may be due, in large part, to the (Wang and Wang 1986a).
lack of defined viral systems. to a sites great scopic
A double-stranded RNA was identified in another
extent depended on clectron micro- and Wang 1985). EM
of the RNA indicated a
analysis
111
0014-4894/96 $3.00 Copynght o 1* s Aade PEsA, lac. AD riehas al reproduction a ay far reserved
50596949
