3 ? Dis Val. 38. No. - PP 17-26. 1985 Prinsed in Great Britain All rights reserved
0021.904 85 5100- 00 Copyrighe C 1985 Pergamon Pess L.d
PSYCHOSOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ADOLESCENT SMOKERS BEFORE THEY STARTED SMOKING: EVIDENCE OF SELF-SELECTION A PROSPECTIVE STUDY CARL C. SELTZER and FRANK W. OECHSLI Peabody Muscum. Harvard Liniversity Cambridge MA 03138 and the Child Health and Developmeat Studics, School of Public Hcalth. University of California. Berkeley.
CA 94720. US.A. (Recrinnd is neise forne 17 dagust 198-4)
Abstract- Evidence of noncomparability of self-formed smoker and nonsmoker groups of adolescents from the Chald Health and Development Studies df the University of Califomia. Berkeley. wa1 found in a study of antecedent psychosocial characteristics (observed at age 101 before the adoption of the smoking habit. With possible confounding factors controlled, eventual smokers showed significantly greater prevalence than nonsmokers of Type A personality traits. eutraversion: psychoticism anger. and nestless sleep. Eventual smokers were lower in 1ocic economic status han nonsmokers. and alsa cshibited significantly lower mean scores for the Raven Progressive Matrices and Peabody Picture Vocabulary tesis For cach traal the trends of the data were consistent in boys and giris Since muny of these trsts are shown to track into adult life. ahere they are then rdated to coronary heart disease. the role of sdf-sckection requires further consideration in causal inferences ahout smoking und coronary heart discase
01.10081
IN RECENT years, many published studies have shown an association that suggests a role for psychosocial factors in the pathogenesis of CHD [. 2]. In the Framingham Study. univariate and multivariate analyses showed a positive relationship of certain psycho- social factors to CHD and also to cigurette smoking (3-5). The pervasive question of temporal precedence and a priori self-sclection still reyuires further clarification. however. In the absence of controlled experiments. the effects of cigarette smoking on health have been inferred from observational studies that compare persons who smoke with nonsmokers. In these comparisons. the disease outcomes are assumed to occur in cohorts of smokers and nonsmokers who were initially similar in all relevant characteristics except for the difference in smoking habit. Very little evidence has been available. however. to The unique data of the Child Heaith and Development Studies (CHDS) of the University of Califomia. Berkeley. provide un opportunity to check this assumption by examining antecedent characteristics associated with teenage smoking [6-8]. The CHDS i1 a prospective investigation of children from birth to late adolescence At snouew stages of their development, the children were examined as to their biological, social. and In this report. we have analyzed the antecedent psychosocial characteristics of a large cohort of boys and giris before some of them later began cigarette smoking as tecnagers. Reprint requests should be addressed to: Frank * Olechsli. Child Health and Deselopment Studies, This project was supported ba Grant 1447 from the Peahody Muvcum Harsard Liniversity
verify this assumption.
personality status, as well as environmental and familial influences
2131 University Ave.. Berkelev, CA 94704. = :
CD :-
17
