LOS ANSPIFT TIES
Los Angeles, Californin
October 20, 1054
been proved,
Lale
Lniversity

hairl uudn the premise that binatinn n" a partirular tvpe
neet or hetween rica in each nf : three categaries
making andf disease has has alrcady produced a safe
Might Take Sis Months one it is. so all can be made
Dr. a Cuyler Hammond thar way. = not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr Clarence Caok Tite.
complete statistical Spms to chairman of the scienrife ar
date, said tba: "some say we sisnre bnard and seient fic di
should wait for more defini rector a the Toiarne Indas.
tive evidence before develop- trs Research Committee de.
ing a safe cigarette. bus no ies which he helieves vnelrt
nne has said just what the da prndiure some nf the defni
finitive eiience wuid be." ive eviderce in aich hr
He sasd ha "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In his salk 1n thhe Ameriran "We wisl Tarkle simuitan
ssstem was more important, line of the industry research
mizht prnve suecessful in *ix dn nos havn todav the experi
months, rirh luck." he said mental evidener hat : per
tobaren, he Rair. and : may The most important nrneet

cigarette I6 sn seientific re-
search should prove which
should find one, "since
ple like to smoke ciearettes.
seriber ahse nutlines nf siud-
Tackle Unknewns

Expert Calls
Safe
Cigarelfes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming
NEW YORK Ort. 19 (ILP)

for

statistician

-oad

this viewnnint

The rvidence connecting cig- Cancer Snciets meeting. Dr cously mans nf the unknowns
arette smoking with hoth Hammon sairt the relation- in this field of tobacen 11n in
lung rancer and heart dis- ship nf rigarette smoking to relation to human health, he
case is "overw helming" and the heart and the vascular said in announcing the out-
something should be done at from the standpoint df public program. We seek definitive
onee about developing "a safe health. than the relationship findings in ue area where
cigarette." leading statisti- to lung cancer A program to much suggestive sork hae
cal scientist told the annual find a safe eigarette from heen done. The program nf
tihe advisory board of the There are various types n! garding the rause Anri rFert
Tobacen Industry Research inhacen, there are varings relationshn hetween rrs r-
Committeo ansounced some of types a fiters, anr these are mental factore including

the viewpoint of the heart the bnard
Outlines Deseribed

tha: wn
recngnizes
mit scientific concksyons PA.
smnkine and lune ancer
set up was dinees Tadiv 5
eurrent lung cances rases .
10 medical centers inle : n T
ed States and Canada.

meeting cf the American
Cancer Society today.
At the same time the scien-

Ie details nf Etis seieniss re arinis terhn'ques n! curing

srarch prngram which in he thar

same fortuitans rnm-
LOS ANGELZS EXAMINER
los Ange les, California
October 20, 1954

It will inelude numerous
studies of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers.
as well as test on animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. à apecifio research
grants, financed by the TIRC,
Wrill be announced Jater.

HEALTHSTUDY
ON TOBACCO
YORK. Oet. 19, -
A broad ste point study seek
ing lenowledge whether eigarets
or other forms of tobacco canse
lung eancer or other health baz.
ards was announced today.
It B the first announcement
of big research proyram
headed by the selentifie ad.
visory board of the Tobacco In
dustry Research Committen

NKW

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062