DAILAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Tezas April 14, 1954
Tobacco Firms New Cancer NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing Industry charged Tuesday "gensa- auctioneers.
Ask Studies growers and tobacco tional" statements linking smoking Among those pajonb by the com- and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer Institute of the United States Gov- relationship af ernment, which said a a 1953 k cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of lung cancer for exhaustive research to estab- had not been established. Several lish the basic cause of the disease. of the institute's scientists also The tobacco industry research were cited. Others quoted were the Damon issued a booklet c0n Runyon Fund, which called for taining previously published state- more research, and ments by thirty-six cancer authop- cer Surgooni Dr. Max Chicago Cutier, who itles doubting or denying claims said a few sensitive persons may by other cancer experts that tobac- deveiop lung cancer partly because at smoking but that to The earliest, whitten le 1923, said conclusion of a direct relationahip accept there were irritants in tobacco but le all cases is "unscientitic and none that wouid produce tunnors. hazardous. The most recent; dated last March JI smoke in the lungs were a 16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of be done before causes of lung can- have had it long ago," canoer, the cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report The tobacco committee, formed Memorial én January ta combat mounting bor, Maihe. Laboratory, Bar Har- charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the up of nearly every major cigarette University of Texas School of Medi- manufacturer and organizations eine, the Metropolitan Life Insr-
alded picture of the committee
Can- 5 we'd all Jackson
co causes tung cancer.
can be established.
director of the Roscoe B, Littie, ance Company and British author ities, Nearly all those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until an absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report was described by an industry spokesman as E "in- terim" statement, pending ane nouncement of the choice of a prominent scientist to basie cancer supervise research to be f- nanced by the industry. That scien- tist will decide how the industry's cancer-research money is to be spent. Na date has been set for his selection. At the last count, the committee said; there were more than *54 cancer research grants in the United States alone, which "any one n might produce evidence to unlock the secrets of lung cancer,
01
