HK82228112

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIECO

:

January 3, 1977
Dr. Willian H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Research roundation
715 Muir Lands Vista Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. Fishman:
and Salk.

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolia rescarch cocaunity In particular, tha activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzyaes
should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnnent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental
prublems is partisularly inely. It will be o! 0at potential importance for
pulling togetter vork, by a number of laboratories directed tovard isolation,
characteriztaion and doterniriation of the sionificance of hurian oncodevelcpmenta
antigens such as alphafotaprotein and carcinoxsbryonic anticens.
One of the goals of the work in nur laboratorv is to deterine the relationship
of increased serusa concentrations of AFP to preralignant lesions or carcinogen
exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and nouse model svstess clearly derion-
strate tnet anirals pasociko to hepatocarcinoyens have cleva ted serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developrant of sslionant Lucrs. It is hoped that systeratic
study of hunan sera fruta differert aources will determing if serus AFF concun-
In addition, the role of envirunsental factors such as hormonal influences on
the production of omcodevclopmental gene ar-h.1s car he further explored in
different sy:teas. Such data implies that (h prod:ution of nicodave lopmental
gene producis by tunor cells is net a fixed property of 2 given tumor but is
We look fonrard to vorkinn with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the important subject of oncodeyeloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinones exposure.

Subject to envirommcrtal controls.

express ion.
Best regards,
Stewart Se11. H.D.
Professor
Ss/nb