C

da/v!s

IT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Mew York Times Serviey

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigaretie promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars .
made cigarettes last ysar, ringing became E issue even in recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22

TAIPET I The Marlboro cow- dn sales of $119 million. le 1986, trade talks between the United New Taiwan dollars (79 cents)for
boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4 4 million. For- Suaics and Taiwan. Wang Chicn- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes Dow hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigaretie advertis
tomm. His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered * ing in Japan are more liberal, Com-
guitar-playing jeans-clad promot- Indocd, Asian sales accounted give out free cigarettes and gifts," B aggressive campaign. Television
This frenetic, fast-growing 0A- cigarette exports last year, primari teschers told me that junior high lawod in the United Suates in 1971.
tion of nearly 20 million pcopie ly because both Taiwan and Japan school students - 12, a yoars oid Cigarette packages sold in Japan
emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-siandiog restrictions. are now smoking How can € and Taiwan must carr) a label that,
year and for the first time, . According to the Brown & Wu- rette companica promote cigaretics roughly translated, says, "For the
rubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobecco Corp. exports ol like that? Id's O.K. to have them sake of health, don't smoke t00
Made la America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- mucb" a waring much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re joy - 915, billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan. American man- sulting in $i uomsg in Dew sales. the United States. But those people mandated S the United States.

and dod-pur-ou stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.

panies can advertise on TV after

o01 this city, next to posters % - peroent.
er of Winston cigarettes.

"They go 01 amusement places de 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

for most of the growth in American he said recently. "Many scbool- advertising of cigarettes was out

lo Japan, which has population
million
of 120
and where people
the past year. The market share &5
American cigarettes increased to ers vigorously deny
10
frons 3 percent ls 1986, and the promoting

wacturers have essentially intro
cigarette advertising 01 the
tbe American companics of entic
ing teen-agers a uake da mmoking.
operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992.
tised, altbough it does now.
pressure from Washington. In the alcohol.
year since stiff resirictions o0 for
8 cigarettes WETE dropped.
a American cigareties UT Taiwan
for
peadod growth American man-
sfacturent at time when sales in export
way
and tbe number ol anti-smoking
laws is
way dn

are juat like robbers. I you are * Tbe fcompanies say Amencan
'urtu a human being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taivan
nos a much beczuse ol the adver-
tising a because they are of better
quality and taste better. American
ane
with the way are cigaretier made of
they and bacco and have less tar than Taj-
producta s4y wancse cigarettos which are not

duced

ialand, and that has created a furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes year that.
Government oflicials bave accused imports have more than tripled

American

cigarette manufactur-
there a
any-
Tbey are not alovved to advertise
5 small storca where cigarettes are
as well as
through promo-
also
120 ada a year in
place
dirulation mARA- acl-
dom exopods 200,000.
poople
Taiwar
im

blended
to-

charge the American companies more than perceat last year, thing Ruoin their
The soreamesiadsinisees dicts that la could grow to 15 8. 20 sales pitch.

botly deny.

Department of Agriculture oid thry have no pians to change theu bleodod.
American pressure to open their have they pusbed t4 do 30, they s4y,
said Jaw Shzu-kong a legisiator tions. Cigarette samynt may
courage its people to smoke, why zines, cach ol whosc
causc of American ada. They hire retts accouatod for jcas than 1 per
young attractive pho-nak-6! girla oent of tbe market
wearing short skirts to give . cig- posed strict quotas an forcip
and then it becomas a habit. IC' cigaretter and imposed stif tarifls.

the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan official S they rosent o0 television oE la newapapers. Nor
The government agreed to allow markets to producta (hat éndanger Tbey can advertise only througb
others into the business oaly under pcople's health, like cigarettes and posiers hung ncar cigarette racks of

sales A really burts our feelings. sold,

have soared, generating much- n., the United Sustes docs not en

to Taiwan? Younger

the Unitod Suates are down E femalcs are smoking 1 lou 8 Bdoce last yoar, forcign ciga
According to the U.S. Depart- arettes froe l3 nightclubs K's a cigarettes, banand imporis at &
asert a Agrioulture, people in Tal- difficult lor Sunok boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets lcenaed to sell

immoral.

> a reswlt, imported cigaretie cost

0L/900092