:
NEW-yORK POST, FRIDAY. MAY- 17, 1996 1
MEM YORR
0S7
03 er nonriononsiy pbnislrd disify wwspper
Anti-smoking skulduggery Imagine this scenario: A scientist who leading opponents. claims to have discovered that cigarette Scruggs insists he didn't smoking poses no danger to human uments. health is about to testify on behalf of the enterod Perhaps the tobaoco industry Suddenly it's revealed clear same lawyers have bought the ne
"buy" any doc- not. But unless he has banking business, # is une how ane rensonable people to blower: He also represented former legal fees in the event Brown & pay Wigand's legal costs Poo be inter-
that he t secretly receiving a salary from liams why Scruggs would provide Wil- tobaccn lawyers. It also emerges that the Moreover with such substantial "louns." searcher a house and have go-signed two interpret Williams "salary? car loans for him. In his defense, the sci- This le not the finst time Seruggs has entist insists that, except for the salary, been involved with a subsidized whistle- Question: How would the media likely Brown & Williamson executive Jeffrey react? A huge brouhaha to say the latter's Wigand. CBS Newg promised to pay the The scientist's research, whatever its Williamson sued Wigand for breaching actual merits, would be buried under a his contract's confidontiality clause dur mudslide of derision. The tobacco indus- ing a widely reported appearance on "60 B3 grounds for attempting to buy a wit- CBS lawyers, fearing that the offer to Now let's change a few details. Say the preted as an inducement to break the scientist s a "whistleblower who asserts contract, initially scotchod the segment. that the tobacco industry is fully aware After the substance of Wigand's charges that cigarette smoking 5 lethal and has hit the newspapers, his interview was The lawyers providing the salary and Meanwhile, the anti-tobacco forces also "loans, rather than working for the to- suffered an embarrasment when a for- bacco industry, are in fact spearheading mer Philip Morris employee recanted tes There you have the chain of events that Drug Administration (FDA). actually unfoldod recently in a Louisville, Jerome Rivers, a former manufacturing Ky., courtroom. Yet the near-silençe sur supervisor for the rounding incident has been deafen- drew his claim that Philip Morris rou- one of the few papers to els. (The FDA hoped to use this Merreli run the story on Page One, reported that "evidence" to justify regulating tobacco as Williams, a former paralegal for a drug.) a law firm representing Brown 2 Wil- Critics incessantly portray the tobacco liamson $109,000 Tobacco Corp., received a industry ais amoral, even though ita mortgage and othor financial "erime" consists in selling a legal rewards. Williams had made internal uct that millions of Americans prod- corporate documents available to attor- After these His benefactor was lawyer Richard some of tobacco's foes would comes do well 'dn Scruggs one of the tobacco industry's take a careful look in the mirror.
it's all just a loan, least. ness.
would be roundly condemned on ethi- Minutes.
worked to conceal this fact for decades eventually aired.
the campaign against it. the ing. OSA Today,
timony he had given to the Food and tinely measures and adjusts nicotine lev-
with-
conglomerate,
4 is enjoy. to
neys suing the tobacco companies.
when the subject shenanigans, of ethics clear that
