BOULDER DATLY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

Area stores

SA

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For tha Delly Camera
sour
kids.
ku,

refercing to the Increased enforce-
penlly Tur huntas tobacco vor m
pou; 3 Anq. the cigarelles. The
the cigarettes. and, if asked, they
(6ce BOULDER, Page 3C)

mont.

Boulder police stung 11 busi Store clerks unlucky OFqBnous
nesses this week during 8 craçk. gercaughtwere issued. summons-
down on selling cigarettes to m to appoar u court. Tho maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve horis a $200 fine
of the American Cancer Soclety's THS supa. involved twvo tcams.
Great Ameriçan Smokeout, was in Fach included a uniformed omcer.
tended 01 educate clerks that ir's il- a piain. clothes acer pur OA)
legal to sell tobacco products ta Fairviow High Schoo girts, Who
Police targeted gas stations, 005 giris' parenis signed a waiver al-
vénience, drug, grocery and p lowing them. lo Take pariinthc.op:
Tay has never teeri enforced, said The juvenlles wero told not to
Jopinog Policc Oiicer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
"We're letting the stores know had to show identification.

'count stores. mun. recently, the eration.
this is going to happen,' ahc sald,

Boulder police sting stores
for cigarette sales to minors
At the Conoco station, 8000 2020 Broadway, peran 01 cry
281h SL, one of the giris asked when she was isted sum,
the cashiar for a pack of Mart mons, oys caid 040 wzs a stuy
boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- 3uep anu couldn RORE u
ness, In plain dlothes. poos In ourt Costs. Haukeness pols V
iine-hahind her to witnese thç 0n8018 hér, saying she Mnos
A placard near the cash regis the Distriet Attorey to do sam
ter read, PI ID my own mother. munity ecrvice Instrad of paying
clerk asked to see some identif- The clerks, not the store oWT
cation The buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the.
she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'L do lt to ustund
cd at the license, act it down on stores or clerks, she said.
the counter, and sold her the though, when you acc clerks "Al:
After they left, Haukeness Roulder Police targcted 15:
stepped da and identified him storos and clerks al aill bur four
self as a police officer. Manka received summonses.
came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wook'a operation was the
"When I Nee them ask for an year. Tha Arst sting, condueter
E I think they're going to à in September, targeted 16 stores
esny the cale," Haukeness sald. and 97 cierks received sum

(From Page 1C)

The clerk af Colony Market,.

transaction.

prubably work out a deal-with-

No ID, No Sale, No Way," The the hine,
driver's license, which showed court costs.

cigarettes.
summons.

ing, you tight think otherwise. cy: .
punaos tobacco. sale sting Fhis:

"But they never 8

manges.