PKV

Carcinogenel vel W n41 13 rp2721-2725, 194
carcinogens wutso.nwypwy
chemopreventive agents

Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke
benzola)pyrene: a potentially useful model fos evaluation of

pyridyD-1-butandne and

L342

Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin
Ameneas Flealeh Foundation, Valhalla, NY 10595. USA

models examined 9 date (2). BaP is a protorype of th class
of carcinogenic polycyclie aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco
smoke (1). We have chosen the A/1 mouse hecause previous

The purpose of this study SCA to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce
model for the evaluntion of Tchemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced
lung cancer in smokers, Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression 01
by 4-tmethylnitrosamino-1-O-pyridyl-l-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However. the combined
and benzofalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated.
individually or in combination. Groups of Cemale A/J mice CI evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg
were treated by either intragastric afcara (i-g-) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of
intraperitoneal injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compound: against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP,
and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and7,12-dimethylbenzlalanthracens (9,10).
either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse 01 evaluate the effects of
forestomach were counted. The is route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK
proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4,11,12). Results obtained with the AI mouse can be replicnted
because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems. For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate
the Injection site and associated mortality A dose response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by
relationship for lung tumor induction by ig administration NNK in both the A/1 mous and F344 ral (11,13).
mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventivs agents against single
treatment. The hihest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not het realistic with respect 01 tobacco
of 24 jmol of each) induced moro lung Eumne ors than would smoke. which conains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The
have been expeeted by extrapolation from the loser doses. compounds chosen for 6 study, NNK and BaP are important
Comparisons of NNK and BaP eiven individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (11.
when given 44 the ig route: i.p. administrations of BaP nssess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either
were complicated by local tumor formation and mortalits, before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP
The most favorahle dosing reginien of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to
evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during
dose of 24 pmol of cach, administered in eight weekly smoking In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and
subdoses ig., with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we examined sumos yields obtained
dosing. This regimen induced 10.5:4.4 lung adenomas vodn trentment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously fas
mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 19
ethylisothiocyanate given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This fumor modet was employed in a
and BaP, svas found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzy! isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC
tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP
thls study proside a convenlent model for assessing the NNS wras synthesized in the Americas Heali Foundacion Organic Synthesis
efficacy of chemopreyentive agents against lung cancer Facility. Ats purity was establihed by HPLC a >99. BaP (9346 purity),
Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which Amarican Healrh Foundution Research Animal Farility (4). They were
could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive mainuinet on AIN-7MA dirs containing s4 n oil. as previously
to play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups cf 15 as sammarized in Tahle 1 At ase - weeks eseh mosase wa
kers: 4metlylnirosmino) -(3-pyridy!)- -butanone (NNK*) treated by inraperitoneal (ip injection or by lntragastric gavage (is) with
and benzolajpyrene (BaP) (1) NNK Is a potent pulmonary the appropriane chemical jn 0.1 ml cononseed oi, NNK and BaP were bai
carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung le all rodent dissolved in the 0.1 ml used for treatment injections and gavages were carried
*Abbreslations: NNK. 4-(mehy! asamino)- -13-pyrlat-- -butunane individuat dose was one -eighch of the naral Equimolar daun of NNK aa a
asP benzel-lpyrene: PEITC, pbencihy! iscthiocyasaic: BITC, benzyl BaP were wsed in most of the combination groups, bacause the nronunts of

which these 015) tobacco smoke carcinogens were given

The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively

of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the

Most previous studies in the A/ mousa have examined
We sought to develop a model which could be used to

that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK

5.9: 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (F A 0.001) and completely
induction by tobacco smoke carcinogens.

Inbibiting forestomach Eusnor development. The results of Materials and methods

BITC (986 purity) and PEITC 69856 (Aund wCIC abtained from the Aldrich
Chomical Cempany (Milwgukes. wI. Cottonseed oll sas purchased frne
Female AI mice. age weeks. wene obeained fn The Jackson Laboesrory
CBar Harbor, ME. They wers hnsed ander standard conditions in the
The desiga of the bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1. A mice were divides
out for 8 consecutive wecks. Thi tosal dases ae given in Tuble L Each 16
NNK ae soral earcinogenic polycyelic hydrocarbons in sebaceo smake are

Sigma Chemlcal Co (SN Louis, MO).

Introduction

agents against two of the carcinogen: in tobacco smoke thought described (4).

isouhiocyanse, 2 Intriperitoncal, ig intragastric gavage.

o Oford Unaversity Press

2721