WIACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRIBUNE D. 25,605 - 49,326 WACO METEOPOLITAN AREA HAR S 1963
FC Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard- guoA1 Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission fron going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarctte So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, It does not scem right or logical that ono medium of advertising be forbidden the producer W hile newspapers, magazines, billboards and counter displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal and to look again at the federal law, which expires Junp 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC sald it is proposing to refuse licenses to broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising becauso of evidence that smoking is injurjour to hcalth and tho FCC has an obligation to protect the public intercst. 'This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bipger than the FCC and may be bigrer than the Congress: the right of individuals to do as they please so long as they doa't harm another. It also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if you don't mention somefhing. maybe it won'e Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democrat, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com- merce Commitice, snid in reference to the proposed FCC rule that the ngancy had overstepped the bounds of its authority. He said he douits that FCC has any righit to tell an advertiser what he could not say in Jis advertisements. Rogers said Congress will take a close Icok: at the whole question o! regulutions om televisinn and radio ndvertising content. not only as to the Federal Communications Commission but in regard to Federal Trado Commission pracuices as The stakes invalved estend beyond the business of broadcasling. They 08 to the hcart of whethed governmeat burcaus should he allowed to 8o beyond
advertising.
Hazardous to Your Health.
hurt you and will disappcar.
well.
tho limits of dus proccss and thc law,
