14A-Contra Costa Times
Sunday, October 6, 1991
EDITORIALS
Curbing tobacco use Patchwork of local laws spread public call for govemment action? no way to fight smoking writing their own smoking rules is that county and city anti-smoking or- smoking in restaurants as of May I. that dinances like the ones adopted by means peopie who like to smoke while the Contra Costa and Alameda County dining will simply go to the next town to Certainly, evidence of the many dan- nos comply with the current rule, which gers of smoiing is overwhelming. Tobac- requires restaurants to reduce smoking 00 a the leading preventable cause of sections to 25 percent or less of available death, killing more Americans than all seating How many more will close when other drugs, AIDS, murder, suicide and smoking is banned altogether? threat to fetuses and a significant con- less restrictive. But it still creates rules in tributor to a host of diseases. Even sec unincorporated areas of the county that ond-hand smoke threatens non-smokers. treac businesses differently from those in But as evidence about the threat of most of the cities and towns. smoking mounts. there has been a corre- To their credit, both Contra Costa and sponding increase in public and private Alameda counties have taken aim at reaction against tobacco, making govern vending machines banning them s ar- The fact is that fewer and fewer peo- county has made allowanoes for ma- ple are smoking or putting up with smok- chines using technalogy thateari prevent ers. Businesses have responded by creat- them from being operated by minors. ing separate smoking sections in offices, Efforts to prevent chilren-frombuy Many private businesses have bannled officials should better accommodate the smoking in work areas. Smoking bans latest technology and thereby lessen haye long been in place in theaters, ele- the financial impact on vendors. And the trend is to further restrict and non-smoking diners. There is no rea- smoking 5 areas open de the public to son for local governments to interfere Businesses are wel aware of the public working against smoking. Why, then, should county and city d treat everyone on an equal basis and governments feel obligated 0) compose protect peopie from unwanted second- restrictive smoking ordinances of their hand smoke make far morp sense than a own, particularly when there is no wide- patchwock quilt of local ordinances.
The probiem with cities and counties they create inequities and confusion For example, Wainut Creek will ban, eat. Already, one restaurant in that city has been forced to ciose because it could
o we really need a patchwork of supervisors and the city of Walnut
Creek?
car accidents combined. It also 4 a
The new Contra Costa ordinance is
ment intervention less urgent. restaurants and other public arens. vators. auditoriums and other en protect people from tobacco smoke. concem about second-hand smoke and have acted accordingly.
ens accessible o: minors. But neither ing cigarettes era admirable. But public Also, smoking ordinances should al- low restaurants to cater to both smoking with market forces that already are Statewide smoking laws that accom- modate legitimate interests of business-
closed places.
