Vol. 285 Na 25

EDITORIALS

1$17

The New England
Journal of Medicine
Officia! Organ of
The Massachusetis Stedical Society
Founded la 181 as NEvr
the ESGEAND OUNAL oy
MEDICINE AND SURGERY and continued le 1828 as Vol. of
the Bostos MEDICAL AND SUAGIcAL JOUINAL,
PUBLISHES WEENLY 8y THE COsATTEE oN PUSLICATIONS
or THE MASSACHUSETT: MEDICAL SOCIETY
Claude E Welch, M.D., Ghninsan
Joseph Carland, M.D., EDITOR EMERITUS
Franz J. Ingelfinger, M.D., EDIToR
ASSOCIATE EDroas
Georyre S. Richardson. M.D., Boos REVIEWS
Robert O'Leary, ASSISTANT EDIToR
EDITORTAL BOARD

ACTION ON ASBESTOS
AShESTOs workers are unintentional victims of
industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary
fibrosis, pleural caleification, mesotheliomas and lung
cancer. Asbestos exposure is now
involving not only air but also
wine and beer. Fibers have been found in the
lungs of people without incustrial asbestos ex-
posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or
ferruginous bodies may be, there l- no doubt that
electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers
ease in the general population at this time, the
presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing.
Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by
most chemical and physical means and can float
freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods.
Asbestos diseases have a long latent
sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must
made now, On the basis of "reasonable probabili-
ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition
of dose-response relations,
These thoughts are reinforced by the work of
new ship construction include better than usual
tions. A second study of Murphy et al. reports two
cases of pleural disease (one mesothelioma) in
workers who sanded asbestos foor tiles. Since the

widespread,
drinking water,

Alexander Marble. M. D.
Samucl Proger, M.D.

Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al-
Leroy D. Vandam. M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-

20
period,

ane B Desforges, M.D.
Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.

Ronald A. Malt, M.D.

Arnold L. Smith, M.D. years or more. We therefore believe that more

be

Robert E. Johnson, M.D.
Norman G. Levinsky, M.D.
Francis D. Moore, M.D,
Charies A. Sanders, M.D,
Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D.
Ronald A. Arky a
Dana L. Farnsworth, M.D.

John w Lidefield M.D, Murphy and assoclates in this fssue of the Journal
Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, 6 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in
John R. David. M.D, exposure data and Indicate a high incidence of as-
Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. pestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have
Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-

Louis Weinstein, M.D,
Howard Bleich, M.D,

Isadore N. Rosenberg, M.D.
Milion C. Paige. 4 BUSINESS MANAGER

AUTHORS preparing manuscript for submission 10 the Jour degree of asbestos exposure wwas unknown, the au-
na! should consult "Information for Authors. This material thors simulated the working conditions and found
may be found in the firss issue of every volume of the Jowr concentrations of 1.3 Sbers per millliter 'of room
nel, or it may be obcained from the Josmal office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of
space, and all material, including higures, should be submit- used threshold limit values. A Sber per milliliter of
CASE REPORTS. usualiy published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours Inhales some 10 Abers every
gence" section, should include only the pertinent detsils and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled

manuscript, including references, should be typed double
reference to anticles reporting closely related cases. A very Rbers remains in the
short case report or description of a technic submicted as a
"BRICF RECORDINC" should be limited to 500 seords,
MATERLAL printed in the New England fournal of Medi- year period.
cine is covered by copyright, The Jourwal does nos hold itself
responsible for statements made 9 any contributor.
NOTICES should be received not later than noon on Mon-
day, 24 days befone date of publication.
cies published. Requests should be sent tn the author.
imply endorsement by the Jounnal,
Arbor, Michignn 48106.
chusetts 02115.

currently
figures suggest

ted in duplicate.

room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per
an alarming number will still accumulate over à OI
A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation-
al Academy of Sciences panel has called for control
of asbestos emissions at the source and for protec-
The report also calls for further rescarch on the
Abers: such data are urgently needed f

these
lung,

that

:

REPRENTS: the Joural does not stock reprints of the artl- tion of those who are exposed In their occupations.
ALTHOLCH al advertising material accepted is expected 0o biologic effects and the physica! characteristics of
SUBSCRIPTION PRICES (worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with
interns. residents $7.50 per year). Rates are in U.S. funds only, confidençe." Although we endorse these recommen-
MICROPILSE volumes available to regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for
through University Microfilms, 315 N. First Street, Ann technical controls based on existing knowledge.
COMNUNICATIONS should be addressed to the New Eag- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as-
land fournal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other Aibers and analysis of their effects

conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance docs not asbestos

on cells and tissues are important and must be con-