True-Taise Questlont 8 the Chenistry and Psychophys Tology of Odor end Flevor
1. H F Song nodern workers suggest hat nocurate ensurenent of vibrational
frequency (in tha far Infrared, for exanple) of an unknown ndforant
wili pernit prediction of its quallty nnd intenslty.
T a No lementel substance, not even halldes or ozone hos any odor; Instead
they react with the mucoss fonaing new products whlch are smellod; but
Sone odorants have sterlc or vibretional propertles which force the
conclusion that they are odor less whon they are not
11. à A Present evidence strongly suggests thet different parts of the olfactory
receptor ares, IIke the retino tn he eye, are qua ilty-spocific.
TF Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor
1 No one yet has - e clue as fo the criticot relation between the
molecule nne he receptor which permits an odor perception.
- The greeter thve secretion rate of nucous or sellve, the higher their pH,
and both pHl and temperature influence the quallty of sensation in the
111 H F The Ideal instrumentel detector would respond to odors in the sane
quantitetive range as doas an aniinal or human sub ject.
7 - Such an Ideat detector has not been developed.
> : Hann observors with head In fixed position can by virtue of the two
Indopondent nostriis easily discern stereo Sioll effects. 1.e. they
can tell wholier hs Morant Is at the right or efr hand, much as one
uses hts twa ears in locating the source of sound.
TF For certaln musk-Ike compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to
trigger - humon olfactory response.
Adaptation 04 one olfactory qunlity does not significantly reduce
sensirivity to any ofher dissimiler Quallty, but dens reduce sensi-
tivity to all sinilar quellties.
- By employing sini larities nethod of conparing qualitles. one can nowr
obtain Identity nnd degroes of difference without recourse 9 irohlo-
- 1 Hunger loers thresholds slightly to some food qualltios but not for
TF in is no possibie to Toentify the Intensity and quality of certain
given stimull simply by expert examination of the lectrophysiologice
record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons
TF Electrical stimuletion of taste in mnn yields only reports of "sour"
and a "metalllc" or "alkaliné quality.
1 F Direet electricel stimuletlon of tha olfactory 5€ - has
successfully eccomplished.
Although total anosala is rare In humans and ageusia even rarer, there
Is evidence that in analogy to color vision deficiences, sone
are Insensitive to (only certein) quallties while having norna
sensitivity to others.
Toplcal enesthetics applled to the tongue - he nu thn different aue Itles
- Certain endocri ine disense entifles nake It possible for sose people
quire sensitively to "snell" such "odor less" subistances as sucrose or
sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be
reduced to nonsal by eanipuletion of endocrine levels.
- Prenenopause wonon at the Ime of ovulation find certain odors
disegreeable while at ofher rInes In the menstrun cycle these - wta or

sone elements possess taste.

surface In order to be see led.

chemica! senses.

V.

sone words.
others.

yer beon
people

vIl.

50297

of taste disappear at different rates.

they wil Judge quire pleasent.