SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H.
ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

P. Collopy, M.E., CI.H.

et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
questionnaire The sympioms were more common e build-

In a cros-sectional invesagarion in one building. office buildings built ower the last 50 years with a validased
wene measured on e linear analog scale questionnaire. sfur where the ventilation system also provided cooling and
Ar che same aime. the micro-environmen (envirormental humidification, irrespective of the %e of the I A
cheracteristics in the breaching zone nather dhen area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air
samyples) à characierized by measuring semperenere, quality parameter : not described. Skov et al. (1967) es-
relacive hamidiry, respirable suspended perticulases, ar amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern I
bon dioxide, noise level, lighaing inensiry, nelaciwe kar to halls and - older control buildings A kevel of symp
midiry, and airflow. No relarionship I aen berween com -as related to . "fcecing" factor (carpets, upholsery
che degree of sympioms and age. educarion. or dunstion and horizontal surfaces) sad the "macro-moleculer compo
of employmen at the building or aime spent in che budld- nent" of dust. They aiso demonstrated . relationship berween
S on a daily basis. Starisaically, complaine wETE the oumber of hours spent photocopying and using carbonless
significandly more freguent among Supyowr men. Eavi- anpy paper and the level of complaints. Other srudies bave
rommental characteristics associased wich the increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et a 1985)
complaint levels in ahis group included decressed airflow and prychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute
models, phene was an association between respinsble a- cause of complaints le the sick building syndrome by #
pended parsicalates and the levels of boch MCONE - suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et
bnane and sysemic complaints. Sarisfaction wisk dhe F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif.
I ervirorment as predicied by percepcion of dnaft ferences ls the concentrations of eaviroamental pollutant
did * clearty coneribuse a che degree of symypioms, berween rooms in a mechanically and a naturally veutilete
mdies of phe sick building syndrome I examine ples measuring dust and . "macro-molecular fraction.

complaints associared with the "sick building syndrome

velociry and increased kevels of respirable auspended & to indoor air quality complaints.

siculares and dry-bulb sempenanure. In regression
alshough regression models & sggest 2 cony
wnE no independent of chermal panameers.
inaensiry a also associated $ complaints. A
I measures 1o idenaify predictors of complaints in

Several studies have attempred to identify the actual
building. They srudied the rooms with the # compl
rates and used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did desos
strate relationship between sympsoms and both
Area samples ls buildings may not le representative a
the exposures in different points in single rooms. Physical
charscteristics 1 a windows and partitions, computers,
and shelving may influence air currents. Radiant best a
different exposure charsacteristics than tbe macro-erviros

ares -

1 exposeres simulaneoualy and inchude pycho in 5 samples.

indoor I
INTRODCTION

Complaints sermed the € building syndrome" have lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, mos &
led to numerous investigations in the last 15 years. E are hutants resuk from point sources, so they will 3 diluted a
thought o occur primarily ls newly constructed oflice baild- subject a farther removed from the source. A micro *
ings and, at least le the past, were thought to be & to vironment around desks and within cubicies may have very
wide variety of csuses have been identifed le specific settings. ment of a building. In addition. all applied occupational and
including inadequate emperarure and relative bumidiry 000- environmental health rescarch - attempes to relate dose o
trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile ossanic compounds bealth effects sufliers from the problem that dose le generally
and formaldehyde. microorganisms, eaviroamental sobecco measured ee several poiats in time and then extrapolated a
smoke, pesticides,  entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow development of exposure dasifications 1 decadies
spent and contaminated air and boiler fumes. Sbers released while most healh eflects are messured as a single resak o
from duct linings. and à machine offgases 3 odors these chronic exposures Where the variabiliry of san
A group of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms may change not merely brom
et al. 1964) suppested that these complaints were related pri- day to day but from hour 1o hour. such stratepy must fail.
(Robertson et al. 1985) -s unable to identify diflerences in attempsed to characterire air-qualiry parameten in the micro-
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperarure (semper eavironmeat and set these characteristic in relation o the
ature). relative humidity. ai velocity, formaidehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at - pven point in I This
tive or negative ions between several rooms in . building report presents results of cros-sectional investigation of a
with narural and a building with mechanical ventilacion. problem building using a self-administered, linear analog.
where both sets of rooms had high leveis of complaints. Burge sell-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
 I . Aasisuant Professor of Medicine and ol Industrial and Environmental Heakth Sciences at the Univerty of -
of Medicine and Publc Heahh. ' F a Director. Eavironmental Heakth aod Salery. Camepie-Mellon Univerity Pirtsburgh -

inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Nevertheles,

(Kreiss and Hodpson 1964; Hodgson and Kreiss 1966).
marily to mechanical ventilation A same poup of authors

results is greater than the difference le average samples,
No investigations in the peer-reviewed litersrure have

Schoo

$