4H58

Peptide Hormones. Growth Factors. and
Soma H (ed): Placenta: Bassc Research for Clinscal Applcauon.
Int. Conf. on Placenta, Tokyo. 0661 Basel. Karger. 1661 dd 105-114
Isolation of a Xenobiotic Metabolizing
Cytochrome P-450 (P-450sok) with
No Aromatase Activity from Placental
Microsomes of Both Cigarette-Smoking and
Yoshio Osawa, Tadayoshi Higashiyama. Kenji Shimizu'
Endocrine Biochemistry Depanment, Medical Foundauon of
Buffalo Reseanch lnsutute. Bufalo. N.Y., USA

Placental Proteins

Nonsmoking Mothers
Nobutaka Yoshida'

COPY

FILE

The presence of different monooxygenase activities has been docu-
mented in human placental microsomes. The predominating cyrochrome P.
450, that of androgen aromatase, catalyzes the biosynthesis of estrogens [1).
Aromatase P-450 has been tbe object of numerous studies to determine its
mechanism of action and to purify it [2, 3). Gough et a [4) reponed the
presence of another enzyme system which catalyzes the hydroxylation of
xenobiotic substances. It has aiso been reported that a placental cytochrome
P-450 is responsible for the hydroxylation of benzola)pyrene via aryl hydro-
carbon hydroxylase [5-7). The low content of the responding cytochrome P.
450 in human placenta and instability during purification have made it
difficul to isolate any other active P-450 enzyme. As a side benefit sained
from our procedure to purify and characterize catalytically active aromatase
P-450 (3), we found a fraction from the immunoaffinity chromatography
which showed a high level of xenobiotic activity with little contaminating
aromauase activity. Through the use ofconventional purification procedures,
we obunined a xenobiotically active P-450 with no aromatase activity
Previous studies on aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity have demon-
strated higher leveis of this activity in smokers but not in nonsmokers (8, 9).
"Postdoctoral Researcb Fellows oD leave from the Depanment of Obsteings and

Gynecology. Okayama University Medical Scnool. Okayams. Japan

PUBLICATIONS

028242