K82223022
Life Sciences Vol. 15, pp 1291-1300 Printed in the 4.S.A.
Perganon ress
a
ar * Ca PVaT SY KICROSONT FON TIS a PRPSaET An E AE TEM Iress Y, Mang. Ronald E. &a smuesen and T. Tinmothy Crackart Cancer Bessarch Taat ftute, Univarsiey of Californin Sa Praneieco, and Depart- -ene of Community and A vironmontal Medieine, Univeraiey of Calsfornia, Irvine". (Received in final form 26 August 1974: sury Pratreatart ef hansters weieh benso la)pyrene (BaP) greatly increased de in vitro merahal is ef MAP by lung alere a fron prognant hvas atare, and  len effect on the metabols a of Bap by livar miere- -oos - The produetion of various metaholites ef saP by June miere aiydredihyrym 9,10-dio1) an 7,8-diol vere inereased 1E than thae ef tha 4,5-diel. Tn  ense of 1iver nierosonee, only ae yield. af 9,10-diol and 7,8-diol seara inerassad ovar the contrel levels, the presence of eyeloherene oxide in the incuba tsoe ta sures decressed te production of the Asoln. Dasal-level anEvs setfvities in placental, fetal 1iver, and Fatal akin mieroson se ia -staholisine Map were wery low. Pretreatment of pregnant huan tars with RaP Indaced BaP-metarolising entves in fe 3 tisrue 2-3 fold. f in coal CAT, mdr rAl oil, ar exhaust. tohaccn soke. - - foode, ote. à In viero stadice ahnsen thae me sabolie activation of aaP se required for ita intaracticn wih proteins and nlale stAa (2,3). Farller studies uieh :t livar pe eparations 14,5) - hanstar 1iver microsomer (6,7) shoved thas Bar le metahelieed mainiy 8 phenolse and dihpdredihyfrony (aiell derivatives, and to quinones whfe are enzymatie oE air owidatinn peoducte of matahl phenolic metabelitas is'e) as wll : some identifin mor polar netalolives. the metabelies ef sA has generally hnen neamured Aq the production et 3-hydroxy- nar 03-OK-NaP) wiet je aften an of tha major netalelites in witro 5 3-0H- K-regton epowides ef : - polyeyelie aronatic hylrocarton IAs Bte to cell-
sonos we isersanat :o Aire -as ane of the Mfar -
nen 1-hutronna (3-CH-RAP - the natabolin yielde af :6
Manse (a)pyene ar se - careing ana
nental cantaint that is
DaP ie tosic te eltured call (93 hut ie aowr DA An witro (61 and has noe been
11etle interaerin w th :a be - arcinocenic. O the sther hand,
1291
