100 East End Avanue Ncw York, Now York 10028 Tetophone (212) 628-6300
Foundation
OFFICERS AND BOARD GF TAUSTEES Davie J. Mahoney, Chairman Presidant Nortan Sinon, Ine. Emest L. Wynder, M. D. President Thomas J. Ross, Jr., Sacratary Vice President car Airlines, Ine. Warner o Cesgrova, Jr., Treasurer Manaciez Partner Shieics A Company Trustees: Louis V. Aronson, = Prasident Ronson Corporation Mirs. Chanes A. Dana Frederie C Dacker Dacker Presicent Communicatiens, ine Walter Senior BA Panner Hansos Poat, Marwick, Mitchell - Ca. George James, M.D, Dean The aunoy Sinai School of Medicine walliam J. Levin Chairan of the Soard Levtt - Sons, ine. G. witism Meore Prescant Fielderest MIlis, 1ne. JeseshM, Murha Presicent Sandgran - Murha, tne Robant R. Pauley Maxwasl M. Ribb Partner Stroock & Strosck & LAvan Davie L Davles. Erecutire vite Presicant Javits a Javits Genpaal Counset
American Health
July 7, 1970
G. F. Todd, Esq. Tobacco Research Council Glen House, Stag Place London, S.W.1 England
Dear Mr. Todd:
In recent talks with Dr. Carl G. Baker, Director of forming an international study group concerned with research into tobacco and health problems was discussed. This letter is to invite you on behalf of your organization to participate in this The proceedings wi1l aim at providing the relatively few active investigators in tobacco and health research programs with an opportunity to discuss freely current and future research programs with the intent of reaching common objectives more quickly. The group will be composed of investigators primarily involved in tobacco and health research oriented towards producing less harmful smoking products. The partici- pants must be both willing and able to share with other investigators what is being learned from their current activities and openly discuss plans for future research in the field. It is thought that by bringing such a dnozs of experts together to review ongoing u, tudies and to plan future investigations jointly harmful tobacco products will be available sooner and costly research projects will not be duplicated unneces- sarily. The meetings would be held at yearly intervals with the different organizations acting as host.
the
of the National Cancer Institute,
desirability
information and study group.
less
