SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.
complaints associaied with the "sick building syndrome

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

a al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
questionnaire. The symptoms were more common a baild-

In a cross-sectional invesnganon in I building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validated
were measured on a linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and
Ar the same time, the micro-environmene (environmenial humidification. irrespective of the ade of the buildings. A
characteristics in the breaching zone rather than area direct relarionship between the level of complaints and air
samples) i characterized by measuring temper 'au quality parameten was not described Skov et al. (L961) e1-
relative humidiry, respirable suspended particulaes, car. amined indoor air quality symptoms is 14 modern 1
bon dioxide. noise level, lighring inensiry, relasive ha town halls and M older control buildings. A I of 1
midiry, and airflow. No relationship I seen berween I was related o1 . "Beecing" factor (carpets, upholmery.
the degree of symptoms and age. education, or duration and horizontal surfaces) a & the "macro-molecular I
of employment at the building or time spent in che build- neat" of dust. They also demonstrated . relationship berween
hu on a daily basis. Staristically, complaints were the number of hours wads photocopying and using carbonles
sgnificandy more frequent among Suyour men. Envi- Aduo paper and tbe level of complaints. Other studies have
ronmental charecierisics associated 1 the increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985)
complaint levels ie this group included decressed airflow and prychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) cootribute
models, there I 5 association between respir ae- cause of complaints in the sick building syadrome E i
pended particulates and the levels of boch mucost I suring symptoms and enviroamental exposures. Robertson et
brane and rysemic complaints. atisfaction # a F (1985) were unable to demonstrate S measurable dif.
thermal environment a predicted by percepcion of draft ferences la the concentrations of eaviroamental pollutants
R not clearty contribute to the degree of rympton, berween rooms a a mechanically and a aaturaly veutllated
I regression models PIP I t compl 9 building. They studied the rooms with the f
were not independent lf thermal parameers. : iu I and used area samples. à et al. (1987) did compl I
insensity I also associated * complaints. I strate a relationship between symptoms and boch ares #
sudies of * : building syndrome should cxamine ples fuynses dust and . "macro-moleculer" traction, 1

velocity and increased levelsof respirable nupende par to indoor air quality complaints.

diculates and dry-bulb "amudum de tretsion

Several studies have antempted to identify the actual

-

- exposures simubancously and 1 paycho a area samples.

social measures a identify predictors of I de

Area samples is buildings may Dor be representative of
the exposures in different points in I rooms. Physical
and shelving may infuence air currents. Radiant beat may

indoor spaces.
INTRODUCTION

characteristicn such a windows and

partitions, computens,

Complaints lermed the E building syndrome" bave lead 01 uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, moet 2
led os pumerous investigations in the last 15 years. They as lutants resukt from point sources, o6 they a be diluted a .
thought to occur primarily a newty constructed oflice i subject a fartber removed from the source. A micro a
inps and, at least in the past, were thought to be 4 to viroement around desks and # cubicles may have very
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1984). Nevertheles, . different exposure charscteristics than the macro-cnviroe
# variety of causes have been identiled le specific settings, meat of a building In addition, all applied occupational and
inchuding inadequate sempersture and relative bumidiry 000- enviroamental bealth research that attemps to relate dose to
trol, noise, - vibration. volatile organic compounds heakh effects suflers from the problem that dose a penerally
and formaldehyde. microonganisms, eavironmental sobecco measured at several points in time - then extrapolated to
smoke, pesticides, dust. entrainment of vehicie exhaast or allow development of exposure classifications over decades
1 I cootaminated air and boiler I fbers released - most health effects are measured a . single resuk of
from duct linings. and office machine offgnses and odors these chronic exposures Wbere the variability of sampling
A group of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom
t a 1984) pansalins that these complaints were related pri. day to day but from hour to hour, 1 a stratery most fail.
(Robertson et al. 1985) was unable to identify differences le attempted a characterize air-quality parameters s the micro
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb tempersture (temper. eaviroement and set these characteristics a relation to the
ature), relative humidity. air velociry, formaldebyde. or 1 level of individual complaints at a given point .s I This
itive or negative ions between several rooms a a building report presents results of a crom-sectional investigation of .
with narural and a building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using . self-administered. linear i
where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
: I a Amtant Prolesor of Medicne and ef lndustrial and Enviroomental Heakh Sciences at the Univeruty of
of Medicine Publc Heahh. a - a Director. Enviroomeetal Healh and Salery. Camepe-Mellon Univerury, Pirtsburgh. PA.

(Kreiss and Hodgson 1984; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986).
marily to mechanical ventilation. The same dnod of authors

results a preater than the difference in averge samples, I
No investigations in the peer-reviewed litersture I

School
Pburgh

and