44/n/s

MhT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Nre York Timer Server

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 08 New Taiwan dollars -
made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even s receat pack ($2.86) compared with 22

TAIPET The Marlboro cow- dn sales of $119 million. la 1986, trade B between the United New Taiwan dollani E cents) for R
boy n his white hat, cigarette F sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- States and Taiwan. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes Dow hold nearly lM shieng Taiwan' 5 deputy minister of The limits od cigarette advertis
town, His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri. economic affairs, registered a ing is Japan arc more liberal. Com-
Tuyend-mmd jeans-clad promot. Indeed, Asian sales accounted pive out free cigareites and gifu," an aggressive campaign Television
This frenetic, fast-growing na- cigaretie exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawed in the United States in 1971.
tion of nearly 20 million pcople by because both Tuiwan and Japan school students 12, €] years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
mmoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long- -suanding restrictions. are Dow smoking How can # and Taiwan must carry a label that,
year and for the lirst time, a According to the Brown & Wil- rette companies promote cigareties roughly translated, says, "For the
mbetantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? It's O.K. to have them sake of health, don't smoke 100
made in America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" a warning much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asis rose 76 percent last year. re- joy 915, billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting 5 $i billion in new salet the United States. But those people mandated in the United States.
Wacturers have essentially intro- ln Japan, which has 4 population: are just like robbers. JI you are A Tbe companies say American
ing teen-agers 01 take da moking. more than of percent last year, thing 2uoin with the way they are cigaretter are made of blended to

and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.

panies can advertise on TV after

oui this city, next to posters & a peroent.
er of Winston cigarettes.

"They go 01 amusement places to 5:50 P.M. and arc now conducting

for most of the growth is American he said recently. -Many scbool- Tumnmape of cigarettes was out-

paonp cigaretie advertising oo the of 120 million and where poople,
island, and that has created a furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year R
Oovernment officials bave accused imports have more than tripled B Amcrican
tbe American companies of entic the past year. The market share of
The Roreremeol-adeiauured dicts that ia could grow to it 8 20 sales pitch.
operation that had monopolized percent by 1992.
prensure from Washingion. In the alcohol
cign cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw
have soured, generating much- courage its
pealod growth for American man-
laws ia way dn

human being you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan
not O much because of the adver-
manufactut- tising a because they are of better
quality and taste better. American
and bacco and have less tar than Tai
producta their say waacie cigarettos, which ac not

cigarette
their

American cigarettes increased to E vigorously deny there ia any-
Department of Agriculture pro thry have no plans to change
American pressure to open their have they pusbed todo s0, they say.

charge the American companies
tised, altbough it does now,

botly deny.

from 3 percent 5 1986, and the promoting

bleoded.

They are not allowed 9 advertine
de small stores where cigarettes are
a legislator. tions. Cigarette manulacturens may
to smoke, why rines, cach of whosc droulation sel-
dom cxoceds 200,000.
young altractive 19-year-ol girla cent o tbe market Taiwan à
luuran short skirts 9 give dut cig posed strict quotas on forciga
and then it becomes a habit. It's cigarettes and imposed riff tariffs.

the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials say tbey rosent o0 television or in newspapers. Nor
The government agreed to allow markets 0 producta that endanger Tbey can advertise only througb
otbers into tbe business ouly under poople's health, like cigarettes and porters hung near cigarette racks of
year since stiff restrictions on for- "This really burts our feelings, . sold, a well a through promo
k American cigarettes la Taiwan Jo. tbe United Shau-kong Sustes docs not en- also place 120 ada . year in maga-
the Unitod States are way down and femalcs are smoking a lot be- Before last yoar, foreign ciga-
and tbe aumber of anti-smoking causC of American ada. & hire rcttos aocounted for leas than - per-
According 01 U.S. Depart- arettes free in nighiclube. k's vory cigarettes. banaed imports at tbe
msbet of Agroulture poople B. Tai- difficult for funak boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed to sell

poople

wfacturers at - time when sales in export to LuvAL Younger people

the

immoral."

Aa reralt, imported cigareiie cost