page - Pa.
HANINONI Philadelphia, Pa. C March 27, 64
INQUIRER Philadelphis, March 26, 1964
2 Cancer Types Rare In Nuns, Study Shows PALM BEACH SHORES, Fla., March 26.-An extenaive Duns bas shed light on some stubborn problems of medical research, it was reported SATT 6 YEARS LONGER The survey, conducted with that the average age of death "generous collaboration" of was 115 years, about six years chureh authorities, has enlisted bigher than for American wom- the cooperation of more thanl en a general. 116,000 auns in 262 religioas Dr. Nix said the nuns "get Some preliminary results numbers as other women, but based on pilot stadies and a por- they seem to get them or years tion 8 the main survey in 1963 later than the average woman." rere revealed here at a à e There was a strikingly low sixth annual American Cancer incidence of cervical cancer, Society Science Writers Semi- which Dr. Nix attributed to is an unusual type of en, although it can now be activity for the nans,' said detected early enough with the Dr. James T.: Nix, of New so-called "Pap smear" test Orleans, director of the study. that # can be treated effective- so "But they cooperated because ly. they. felt the knowledge la im- portant, and that it was their only one duty a all their sisters and to all humanity,' - The survey's primary target a fairly high incidence of a is pin down some of the t eancer. lationships of health to celibacy, "The nuns realized that abstinence from alcobol smoking and other environmen- er statistical value and a facios. One of the striking findings of death information for the cal- the pilot study : that -enbs endar year 1964," Dr. Nix said. mous cell lunng cancer- the chielly caused by smoking. : being processed in the big which makes up the great computers of the Tulane Univer- majority of all lung cancer sity Biomedical Computing Cen- cases today-occurs only rarely ter. They promise valuable in- among the nans. Dr. Nix added that the t babits of living on health. uleers.
Higher Death Rate
Males Is
By GARY BROOTEN Of The Inquirer Staff Buoure
Among
survey of causes of death Thursday. the communities.
America's Roman The most striking finding: heart attacks a about the same
Attributed to
Catholle
Smoking of all deaths for that -a significant fact in itself.
Heavy By GARY BROOTEN of The PALM Inquirer Staff
age group
March BEACH 23.-A leuding SHOR RES. Fla. But by comparing the 69,000 ex- statistician said Wednesday bealth that cess smokers' deaths with the much of tbe long accepted dif. 153.700 excess death. among all ference le death rates between men. the statisticians came to sexes may be attributable to the conclusion that $4.3 percent differences in cigaret smoking. of these excess dcaths among not fundamental sex differences. males could be blamed on Furthermore. said Dr. Morton smoking. L. Levin, evidence now indi- Previuusly, L be differences cates that cigarets can be (which are usually expressed blamed for "a minimum" of 100.000 excess a a th: S la as a longer life expectancy for America every year. Excess deaths can loosely as early deaths. be defined In differences between men and smoking studies. they are calcu- women. lated by comparing deaths among smokers at level with deaths each age Dr. Levin said. expected from general life expectancy tables. He sard le faet thal the Dr. Levin. chief of epidemi- Su r ge o n General's ology at the Roswell Park Committee Memorial Institute in N. his Y., made remarks at the excess deaths sixth annual American Society Science Writers' Semi par bere. He that nearly 45 percent of the can Caricer the hizher male death rate can be attributed to smoking. In the 25-to-64-year typical year (1960). smokers. These men presum- ably would not have died that year had they not been heavy smokers. The excess deaths among smokers constituted 20 percent
nar. DUTY TO HUMANITY "This
celibacy and good hygiene. Can- cer of the cervix E a common disease. among American wom-
women) had been attributed loosely to biological and other "It la important to remember that other factors are at work," Advisors report on smokin; Buttalo. did not give a figure for total due 01 xmokine Cancer "underscores the magnitude el this publie health problem." Dr. Levio reported on the offered figures indicatini first 300 patients who had gone instinute's Ameri Society-3pohiored research projeet on smokers The reasoning runs like this: withdrawal clinics, but gave no statistics on how many had 155,700 more men than women He said preliminary results died in Amcrica in a given indicate that an antismoking compound, Lobeline. h . 1 a s In the same year, there were smokers quit, but only while 69.800 excess deaths among male they are laking it.
the nuns, Among Dr. Nix found case-in a 93-year-old sister. On the other hand, there was breast a or larger series would be of great- have already started collection of nun new data pour in, they formation on the influence of
As the type
throuph age group. quit smoking.
Ilglous communities' no-smoking rules seem a likely reason for - strikingly Jow incidence of bleeding or perforating peptic Preliminary results from the main study were based 8 575 of the 1116 deaths reported in the communities last year.
1005151230
