LOS ANGELES TIES
Los Angeles, California
October 20, 1954
n
been proved,

hairl upon the premise that hination n a particular type
naneetien hetween riea- in each nf "he Three categnries
ret smoking and disease 2 has already produred "a sale
Might Take Six Months one it is, so all can be made
Dr. 3 Cuyler Hammond that way. I not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Clarrnce Cnok Litte,
complete statistica! study to chairman of the scientifc ad-
date, said that "some say we vianry board and seient'fe di-
tive evidence before develop- try Research Committee. de.
ing a safe cigarette. but no ies which he helieves wonldt
nne hae said just what the de produre some nf "the defni
fnitive evidence wnd be." tive evidence" tn waich Dr
Hr sand he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In his talk in the American "We wiil tackle simltan
system was more important, line of the industry's research
migh: prove surceasful in six dn not have today the experi-
months, with luck," he said menta! evidener that wil ner

cigarette If so, scientific re-
search should prove which
should fnd one, "since peo-
ple like to smoke cigarettes.
reetor ef the Toharro
seribrd the outlines nf stud-
Tackle U'nknewns

Calls
"Safe
Cigarettes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming
NEW YORK. Ort. 19 ALPI

Expert
for

ale U'niversity statistician

should

wait for more defini

Indus

this viewnnint,

The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eously many of the unknowne
arette smoking with bath Hammond sair the relation- in this field of tobacen use in
lung cancer and heart dis- ship nf rigarette smoking to relation to Euman health. 5 te
case is "overwhelming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out-
something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. We scek definitive
once about developing "a safe health, than the relationship findings in an area where
cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer. 1 program to much suggessive work has
cal scientist told the annual find "a safe cigarette" from heen done. The nrogram nf
meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard reongnizes that re
Tobacco Industry Rexearch tnbacen, there are varinus relationship hetween ert ran.
Committee ansounced some of types nf filters, and theze are mental factors, inelnd line
the details nf te xeicatifie re- Varinus teehn'ques nf euring The most

Cancer Society today.
At the same time the scien-
tifie advisory board of the
snarch prngram

Outlines Deserihed
There are various types nf
which i tobaren, he xair, and it may

mit scientifie enncliunns PA
garding the raute anri rfert
xmnkine and lune eancer
important nroeet
current lung cancer raset in
10 medical centers im the En
rd Statex and Canada,

he thar some fortuatons rnm- :et up waa a dineet scudy à

S01 ANGE LES EXAMINER
los Ange: les, California
October 20, 1954

It will Inelude numerous
studles of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers,
an well as tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. The specitio research
grants, financed by the TIRC,
will be announced later.

HFAITH

ON TOBACCO
YORK, Oct. 19-P
A broad stx-point study seek
Ing kmowledge whether eigarets
or other forma of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health haz.
ards was announced today.
It is the first announcement
of a big research proxram
headed by the selentifie ad-
visory board of the Tobacco In.
dustry Rese areh Committee

NEW

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062