True-ra Ise Questions on the Chenistry and ye'sSoje/solevsfe, Odor end Flavor le H F Sone nocern workers suggest that accurate menaurement of vibrational frequency (in the far infrared, for example) of nn unknown odorant will permit prediction of its quallty and intenslty. No elenente substance, not even halldes or ozone hos any odor; Instead they react with the mucosa forning new products which are smelled; but - Sone odorants have sterlc or vibrational propertles which force the concluston that they are odor less whon they nre not. 11. TF Present evldence strongly suggests thet different ports of the olfactory receptor ares, Ilke the retina In the eye, are qubilty-specific T Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor No one yet has a fire clue as to the criticol relation between the molecule and the receptor which pernits an odor perception. The greater the secretion rate of mucous or selive, the higher thelr pH, and both pll and tomperature Influence à quality of sensation in the 111. - The Ideal Instrumentel detector : Id respond to odors in the sono quantitetive range as does an onimat or human subject. T a Such an Ideet detector has not been developed. Iasan observors with head In fixed position con by virtue of the two Indoponter.t nostriis eeslly discern stereo saoll effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier his ororont Is at the right or left hand, much : orie uses his two ears In locating the source of a sound. For certal In musk-liko compounds, forty motecules are sufficlent to trigger a humon olfactory response V. - Adaptation to one olfactory quality does not significantly reduce sensitivity to any of her dissiel ler quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all siallor quelities. - By employing a simllerities nethod of coparing qualitles, one con nowr obtain Identity and degrees of difference without recourse to froble- vi. - Hunger lowers thresholds siightly e some food qualltles but not for It : now possible to Identify the Intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull sieply by expert examination of the electrophyaiological record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons. Electrical stinulation of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkaline" quality. Direct electrica stimuletion of the olfactory senso has nover yet beon successfully accompllshed. VIL. T Although total anosala Is rore In humans and egeusie even rarer, there Is evidence that in analogy to color vision deficiences, sone people are Insensitive to (only certein) Qualities while having normal sensitivity to others. Toplcal anesthetics applled to the tongue show that different quellties Certaln endocrine disense entitles make It possible for nose people Quite sensifively to "sneli" such "odor less" substances es sucrose or sodium chloride and thelr sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to noreal by manipuletion of endocrine levels. Premenopause wonon at the time of ovulation find certaln odors extrenely disegreenb le whlle at other times In the menstrun cycle these seme odors
sote elenents possess toste.
surface le order to be snelled,
chemicn senses.
IV.
sose words. others.
of toste disappear at different rates.
they will judge quite pleasant.
ovi
