BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
Area stores
SA
stung
for cigarette sales
by MARK BABIONE For tha Dally Camera nors. kids, kn
refercing to the Increased enforce- penalty Tur selling tobacco to a ml- tried to buy thie cigaretles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky enouah OF nesses this week during a crack. get'caught were issueda summons- down on selling cigarettes S mi- to appoar UT court. The maximum The sting. conducted on the eve horis E DOZS fine. of. the American Cancer Soclety's The Suna involved two tcams. Great American Smokeout, was in- Each included a uniformed 'offcer. tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain clothes. amcer. and two legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School girts, Who Police targeted gas stations, con- girls' parenis signed a waiver al. vénience, drug, grocery and dis lowing themlotale par the. op Tawhas neverbeer enforced, said The juvenlles woro told not to Jopmnog Policc Ollicer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "We're lerting the stores know had S show Identification.
-
count slores. Unul recently, the eration. this is going g happen," ahc sald,
the cigarettes. and, if asked, they (See BOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors a At the Conoco station, 3000 2620 Broadway, began 01 a 28th SL, one of the girts asked when sho WAs ieatied the cashinr for a pack of Mart mone, eys gald she DUM stur boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- jusp. and couidn't alord ne ness, 5 plain clothes, po019 in court Costs. Haukeness per 01 tna-hahind her to witness thc codgole her, saying she could A placard near the caih regis- the Distriet Altorney to do tos - ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice Inatradof paying clerk asked to see somo identifi- The clorks, not the store owne cation. The buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the.: she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- We don'l du it S -usund cd at the license, act it down on stores or clerks," she said. "Al-: the counter, and sold har tho though, when you occ clerks cy: Afer they left, Haukeneas Roulder Polica targeted ST stepped da and identified him Blorca and clerks a allbur four celf 03 a police officer. Manka received summonses. came In and wrote the clerk a Thie wock's operation was the: ITATA, I see them ask for an year. Tha first sting, condueted E I think they're going to 2 in September, targeted 16 stores esn the cale," Haukeness sald. und ST clerks received sum
(From Page 1C)
The clerk at Colony Market,.
m-
trensaction.
prububly work out a deal with-
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Mne, driver's license, which showed court coste
cigarettes. summons.
ing, you mnight think otherwise. secund tobacco sale sune a4
"But they never do."
manges,
