HK82228119
SANT SARBAR :
LLNIA :

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIECO

La a Z

: 1 - -
I4PAKIMI / : PAIN
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willias H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Researci Tourdation
715 Muir Lands Vista Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. Fishean:
and Salk.

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolia rescirch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes
should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establismnent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmenta
prublems is particularly irely. It will be 0! o'vat potential importance for
pulling togetter wort by à number of laboratories directec toward isolation.
characieriztaion and dotermination of the sienificance of huran oncodevelopsiontal
antigens such as alphafeteprotein and carcinoecbryonie entiuens.
One of the goals of the work in our laborator is to determine the relationship
of increased serusa concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinopen
exposure in humans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systors clearly derion-
strate tnet anirals exposed to hepatocarcinoyens have eleva ated serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developrant of mslionant timcrs. It is hoped that systeratic
study of human scra frum differest sources vill deterning if serus AFr concun-
In addition, the role of envitumestal factors such as hormonal influences on
the production of oncedevelopsewial gene urplits can be further explored in
different sy: tems Such data ioplies that the brod:u tion of oic oczve elopmental
gene produci, by turor cells is net a fixed property of a aiven tumoin but is
We look forard to workino with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Researct Foundation
in furthering research in the iiportant subjert of ontodevelopenta gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoser exposure

subject to enviroumestal controls.

express ion.
Best regards,
Stewart Sell, H.D.
Professor
SS/nb