Appendia
SmiNaErs in CANCER BIOLOGY. Vol 1 1990 PP 127-136
The role of cathepsin L in malignant transformation
Susan E. Kane and Michael M. Gottesman*
Procathebsin 7 is the major excreted protein ef malignantly What is MEP? The first hint as to the identification of transformed mouse fibroblasts and it is one a the major MEP came from studies in which MEP was shown to acid csteine broteases in mammalian cells. The broad gen- be a glycoprotein containing mannose 6-phosphate. aal protease activity of cathepsin 7 against a variety of Since mannose 6-phosphate is a lysosomai recogni- extracellular matrix proteins as well as other intracellular tion marker, it appeared that MEP was a lysosomal fyrotein substrates, and its regulation bn factors which stim- protein whose transcription was increased as the ulate growth, ssanons that it contribules to the transformed result of growth stimulation. A search for hydrolytic phenotype, Possible functions in antigen processing, inva- activities associated wich purified MEP led to the dis- stveness, metastasis, and tumnover of intracellular and covery that MEP was an acid protease inhibitable by secreted proteins involved in grouth regulation have been leupeptin, which put it in the class of cysteine pro- Key words: Cathepsin L / growth factors / numor pro resembled that of cathepsin L.10 However published THE ASSOCIATION of cathepsin L with the process of weights of 21,000 Da and 5000 Da, whereas MEP was malignant transformation was first demonstrated in a 39,000 Da protein, This discrepancy was resolved 1978, when a was found that malignantly trans- when the sequence of MEP CDNA was determined formed mouse fibroblasts secrete large amounts of a and its deduced amino acid sequence was compared 39,000 Da protein into their culture medium.! This to the available partial protein sequence of cathepsin purified to homogeneity and rabbit antisera were mal form of cathepsin Lu identical to the major cys raised against the purified mouse protein. The anti- teine protease of activated macrophagesi? and the sera were found to precipitate an intracellular pro- major ras-induced protein of transformed tein which was present in nontransformed cells and fibroblasts.13 For the remainder of this review, MEP synthesized at dramatically increased rates in trans- will be referred 01 as procathepsin L. be the result of elevated amounts of translatable MEP tied to growth stimulation in cultured cells? Does the mRNA Later, after a CDNA for MEP was cloned, enzymology of cathepsin L indicate anything about this high level of mRNA was demonstrated by nuclear a possible function in malignancy? Why is pro- run-off sAesse to be the result of increased transcrip cathepsin L secreted even though it carries Iysosomal tion.5 PMA, a phorbol ester rumor promoter, and a recognition markers: How is it processed to vield variety of growth factorsse? were shown to stimulate mature cathepsin L in lysosomes? How do oncogenes MEP synthesis and secretion, suggesting that MEP and growth factors reguiate expression of procathep- was associated with the process of growth in cultured sin L mRNA? Does cathepsin L play a role in human
proposed
teases." More detailed analysis of the proteolytic specificity of MEP on oxidized insulin B chain. a stan- dard protease substrate, showed that MEP activity data on cathepsin L suggested that the lysosomal form of this protease was a protein consisting of avo polypeptide chains having approximate molecular
moters / oncogenes / secreted proteases
protein, termed MEP for major excreted protein, was
MEP was found 01 be the precursor to the lysoso-
formed cells.2 This increased synthesis was shown to
Why is the synthesis of procathepsin L so closely
fibroblasts.
cancer? This review will attempt 9 provide answers to
these questions.
From the Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Carcer Institule, NIH, 9000 Rockuille Pikr, Building 37, Room 2E16, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA *To whom rebrnis requests should be addressed o 1990 in WB Saunders Company 1044375X/90/0102010455.00/0
Enzymology of cathepsin L
Cathepsin L L: a porent crsteine protease. one of sev eral acid proteases presumed to be invoived in the
127
