DALLAS MORNING NEWS
Dallas, Texas
April 14, 1954

Tobacco Firms Ask

New Cancer
Studies
NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing
growers: and tobacco
charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers.
tional" statements linking smoking Among those quoted by the com-
and lung cancer have given a one- mittee WRS the National Cancer
Inatitute of the United States Gov-
relationship ef ernment, which said . a 1953
cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of
for exhaustive research de estab- had not been established. lung Several cancer
lish the basie cause of the disease. of the Jnstitute's scientists also
The tobacco industry research were cited,
Others quoted were the Damon
booklet 0 Runyon Fund, which called for
taining previousty published state- more research, and Chicago &
ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgooni Dr. Max Cutler, who
ities doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons
by olher cancer experts that tobac- deveiop lung cancer partly because may
ot smoking but that to accept the
The earliest, whitten la 1923, said conclusion of a direct
there wera irritants ini tobacco but in all- cases is "unscientifie relationahip
none that would produce tumnors. hazardous."
The most recent: dated last March F smoke in the lungs were a
"9t said much more research must sure-fire cause of cancer, we rd all
be done before causes of lung can- have had it long
or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence ago," Cook report
The tobacco committee, formed Mernorial Laboratory, Bar Har-
5 January to combat mounting bor, Maihe.
charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the
up of nearly everymajor cigarette University of Texas School of Medi-
manufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Inar

industry
alded picture of the
committee issued a
co causes lung cancer.

*

and
the

cer
can be established

director of the Roscoe B. Jackson Little,
ance Company and British author
itles, Nearly alt those quoted
agreed that no conclusions çould be
reached until an absolute cause for
lung cancer has been established
The report was described by an
industry spokesman as 5 "in-
terim" statement, pending an
nouncement of the choice of a
prominent scientist to supervise
basic cancer research e be à-
nanced by the industry. That scien-
tist will decide how the industry's
cancer-research money le La he
spent. No date has been set for his
At the Jast count, the committee
said; there were more than 2
cancer research grants in the
United States alone, "any one of
which might produce evidence to
unlock the secrets of lung cancer,'

selection.