WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRISUNE D. 25,605 S. 49,326 WACO METEOPOLITAN AREA MAR 9 19E9
FC Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard-. -Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Comnmunications Commission from going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it does not scem right or logical that onc medium of advertising be forbidden the producer while newspapers, maguzines, billboards and e ounter displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress ie expectod to review the FCC proposal and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the warning: "Caution: Cigaretto Smoking May Be The FCC sald it ie proposing to refuse licenses to broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising because ot evidence that Buryjours is injurioun to hoalth and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public intercst. This ia nibbling at onc corner of an issue that le bigger than the FCC nnd may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals to do es they please 50 long as they don't harm another. Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if you don't mention something, maybe * won't Congressman Paul Rogers, Hlorida Democrat, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Con- merce Com:mitice, said in reference to the proposed FCC rule that the Souatlu had overstepped the bounds of its nuthority. He said he doubts that FCC has any right to tell an advertiser what he could not say in his ndvertisements. Rogers said Congress will take a close Icok at the whole question of regulations on televisinn and radio advertising content, not ouly as 01 the Federat Communications Commission but in regard to Federal Trade Commission practices as The stakes involved extend beyond the business of broadcasting. They o5 to the heart of whe:her government buireaus should he allowed to 03 beyond
advertising.
Hazardous to Your Health.
hurt you and will disnppear.
well. -
tho limits of dus proccss and thc law,
