New York Times March 1, 1968 Page 34
Another Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs to Use It By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pali Mall of Canada, Ltd., the second-larg. est cigarette sompany in that country, contracted yesterday with the Suikonalpoundation o3 pay a penny a yed royalty for use of the filter iented by Robert L. Strickman. The company, which ie X per cent British-owned, buth Canadian-managed, sells 12 bil- lion cigarettes a year, very few o: them in the United States. The agreement was the second In two days with thc founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company, with annual salcs of more than 18 billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. Strickman, was surrendering its rights to the filter to the fonndation. The university said de had "made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering a highly con- troveisial and competitive com- mercial field." Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financial stake in the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to a last summer by Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set dn on Wednesday by the New Jersey chemist as charitable institution "to ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has received $200,000 in advance royalties. According to Robert > Katz, the unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts could eventually bring in about $5 million year't royalties. Mr. Katz, A Jawyer who. a secretary of Seagram's Distil- leries, pies that Rothman's Pall nfall of Canada hed been test- ing the. Strickman filtor since last August. Wilmat Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman's, said of the device: "We are sntisfied that * nothing exists to à which gives comparcl'e filtratlon without adverrety affecting'the flavor of the cigarette. takes out 'more suspect e'e ments withia the cuniext of ac- ceptable flavor, we feel that as cigarette company
3 Clalms Are Disputed The claim that the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ing cigarette flavor has boen a subjcct of controversy. Among the most outspoken critics of the filter has beenlF enator Warren G. Magnuson ohWashington, who has con- tended that its claims have been eatly exaggerated. EnouL many governmental and privae health reports byl experts, hate called cigarette, tar and hicotine health hazards, Columbia Mnivyrsity, in a re- port on the Shickman filter made public ua Wednesday, avoided making 2 conclu- So far no United Stat tes ciga- rette companies are beliayed to be close to a contract iX the filter. Experts say that doies- tic companies need not féar competion 5 this country from the Canadien cigarettes because of a 15-cent import duty on each package. PallMall-cigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana- dian concern.
sions.
research.
*
should
