a ? Dis Vol. 35 No. 1.p0 17-26. 1985
Priated in Great Britain All righis reserved

0021-9681 85 53.00 0.00
Copyright e 1985 Pergamon Press Lid

PSYCHOSOCIAL CHARACTERISTICI OF ADOLESCENT
SMOKERS BEFORE THEY STARTED SMOKING:
EVIDENCE OF SELF-SELECTION
A PROSPECTIVE STUDY
CARL C. SELTZER and FRANK w. OECHSLI
Peabody Museum. Harvard U'niversits Cambridge MA 02138 and the Child Health and
Development Studies, School of Public Health. University of California. Berkcley.

CA 94720, U.S.A.
(Recrired in rerised form 17 lagust 1984)

Abstract- Evidence of noncomparability of sell-formed smoker and nonsmoker groups of
adolescents from the Child Health and Development Studies of the University of Califomia.
Berkeley. was found in a study of antecedent psychosocial characteristics (observed at age 10)
before the adoption of the smoking habit. With possible confounding factors controlled. eventual
smokers showed significantly greater prevalence than nonsmokers of Type A personality traits,
estraversion. psychoticism. anger. and restless sleep. Eventual smokers were lower in socio-
cconomic status than nonsmokers. and also eshibited significantly lower mean scores for the
Raven Progressive Matrices and Peabody Picture Vocabulary tests For cach trait. the trends of
the data were consistent in boys and giris Since Aurw of these traits are shown to "track" into
adult life. where they are then rdated 01 coronary heart disease. the role of self-sdection requires
further consideration in causal inferences about smoking and coronary heart discase

INTROD UCTION

N] RECENT years. many published studies have shown an association that suggests a role
for psychosocial factors in the pathogenesis of CHD U. 2]. in the Framingham Study.
univariate and multivariate analyses showed a positive relationship of certain psycho-
social factors to CHD and also 01 cigurette smoking (3-5]. The pervasive question of
temporal precedence and a priori self-selection still requires further clarification. however.
In the absence of controlled experiments. the effects of cigarette smoking on health have
been inferred from abservational studies that compare persons who smoke: with
nonsmokers. In these comparisons. the disease outcomes are assumed to occur in cohorts
ofsmokers and nonsmokers who were initially similar in all relevant characteristict except
for the difference in smoking habit. Very little evidence has been available. however. to
The unique data of the Child Health and Development Studies (CHDS) of the
University of Califomia, Berkeley, provide an opportunity e check this assumption by
examining antecedent characteristics associated with teenage smoking [6-8]. The CHDS
ia a prospective investigation of children from birth to late adolescence At SNOuCA stages
of their development, the children were examined as to their biological. social. and
In this report, we have analyzed the antecedent psychosocial characteristics of a large
cohort of boys and girls hefore some of them later began cigarette smoking as teenugers
Reprint requests should be addressed to: Frank 3 Oechsli. Child Healh and Development Studies,
This project a 1 supported e Grant E from the Peahody Museum. Harard Lniversity

verify this assumption.

personality status. as well as environmental and familial linfluences.

2131 University Ave., Berkeley, CA 94704, U.SA.

8 38 1

7