Carelnogenesis vul 15 m 12 re - 2725 1924 arcinogens met chemopreventive agents
ung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke benzo(g)pyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
osan
and
C3 420
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Health Foundation. Valhalla, NY 10595. USA by 1-methylnltrossminol
models examined 01 date (2). BaP ie a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (1) We have chosen the A/l mouse because previous
The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemepreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer In smokers. Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantined and their progression to and benzofalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individualis or in combination. Groups of (emale A/J mice CI evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastric gavage (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventiva activities of a number of intraperitoneal injection (Ip.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethyleitrosamine and . dimekhybenalalonhrarene (9.10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse OI evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The ig. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4.1 1,12). Results obtained with the A/J mouse can be replicated because 11 avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems. For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injection site and associated mortality A dose - response (PEITC) Is an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 rat (11,13). mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect to tobacco of 24 jimol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (I). The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP, are important Comparisons of NNK and RaP given individualty showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (I1. when giv en by the ig. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either wcre complicated by local tumor formation and mortality, before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP The most favorahle dosing regimien of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of cheropreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 umol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and subdoses ig, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we examined tumor yields obtained dosing. This reginen induced 10.5 24.4 lung adenomas/ upon teatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks, followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethyl isothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure (I This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibiter of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumnor formation. reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. Its purity wat established L4 HPLC as >997. BaP (93% purity), Our goal ir this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Farility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dint containing sa com oil. as prey viously 2 play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups ef 15 as sammarized le Table I At age 7 weeks. each mouse was kers: (methylnitrosamino 3-pyridyl). 1-butanone (NNK*) treated B imtraperitoneal (ip) injection or by intragastric gavage lig) with and benzolalpyrene (BaP) e NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical le O.I ml couonsced oi. NNK and BaP were bot carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung le all rodent dissolved in the 0.1 ml uned for treatment Injections and gavages were carrin Abbreslations: NNK. 4-(meshy! Initrosamino) pyridyl -butunane: individuat dese was one-eighth of the total. Equimolar doses of NNK - a BaP. benzololpyrene: PEITC, phencihyl inathiocya anaie: BITC, benzyl Ba were used in most of the combination groups, because the amounts of
ridyl). -butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined
which these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/l mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
Most previous studies in the A/I mouse have examined We sought 01 develop a model which could be used to
5.9 a 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely thls study provide a convenlent model for assessing the induction by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inbiblting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
NNK was synthesized in the American Health Foundation Organic Synthesis BITC 5861 purity) and PEITC (98% (und were obtained from the Aldrich Chemical Company (Milwaukee. WI). Cottonseed oll was purchased from Female AI mice, age 5 weeks, wete ebtained from The Jackson Goutroge (Bar Harbor. ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the The design of the bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1. The mice were divided out for 8 consecutive weeks. The toral doses are siven 5 Table L Rac NNK and total earcinogenie polycyelie hydrocarbons in schacco smoke are
Sigma Chemical Co. (SA Louis, MO). described (4).
introduction to
agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought
isothioc: raie 4 intrperitoneal. 5 intrugastrie gavage.
o Ouford Unvenity Press
2721
