100 Eest End Avenue Now fork, New York 10028 Telophone (212) C28-6300
American Health Foundation
BOARS OFFICERS CF ANS TAUSTEES David J. Mahoney, Chairman President Nortaa Simon, Inc. Emest L Wynder, M.D, President ThomasJ. Ross, Jr., Sacretary Vice President American Airlines, Inc. Warner G. Cosgrave. Jr Treasurer Partner Ez Shieics Company Trustees: Louis > Aronson, i1 Ronson Prasident Cornaration Mrs Chanes A. Dana Frederie C. Dacker Decker Presicent Communications, Ine. Waiter Senior Panner a Harson Paat, Marwick, Mitchell & Ca. George James, M.D. Dean The suneys Sinai School of Medicine Willlam J. Levitt Chairman 6 the Soard Levtt & Sons, inc. G. wetiam Mcore Presicent Fielderest Mitis,tne. Jesezh M, Murha Presicent Sandaran.s Murha, Ine Robert R. Pauley Maxwal M. Rabb Partner Stroock & Strosck & Lavan David Erecutire - Davies. Vice Presicant Javits 4 Javits Genoral Counset
July 7, 1970
G. F. Todd, Esq. Tobacco Research Council Glen House, Stag Place London, s.w.1 England
Dear # - Todd:
In recent talks with Dr. Carl G. Baker, Director of the National Cancer Institute, the desirability of forming an international study group concerned with research into tobacco and health problems was discussed. This letter is to invite you on behalf of your organization to participate in this The proceedings will aim at providing the relatively few active investigators in tobacco. and health research programs with an opportunity to discuss freely current and future research programs with the intent of reaching common objectives more quickly. The dnox5 will be composed of investigators primarily involved in tobacco and health research oriented towards producing less harmful smoking products. The partici- pants must be both willing and able to share with other investigators what is being learned from their current activities and openly discuss plans for future research in the field. It is thought that by bringing such a group of experts together to review ongoing studies and to plan future investigations jointly less harmful tobacco products will be available sooner and costly research projects will not be duplicated unneces- sarily. The meetings would be held at yearly intervals with the different organizations acting as host.
information and study group.
