by Samuel S. Epstein The author survevs the record of di us generated data Exalaing enlrme shum 6 d aStTAIDE G data fre giass madreua - baased mterpretation. ma ueerulus sappressnm and a t ourighi de- sit thmi- te sommunipla e esper iall khen prohlable io hmalgirs are msoled Alarmngh. unh a idem . Iw jushes strong resen ation as 1n the saluduts ef an data develuped h institutions E inde nlual wlunr onuma intetests are du eith ET Infernatim : the u -  of sonumi and polan al jmer Ure M-Ir aking at all levels of gm mnment presuppen  the aslalnht ol a body of In fotmation, 11 the lusn al his the relatine merits al ahernate puls a au he anah red and sunsidered H thn sla matee E data base is La nished or imal ul. then whatrrt de NHHIN tra hed sus abohe uope s a Jul hrratenig the lalun ul deme The whrlming talk ol all benrbt and nk data. I he h nu - tegulators de ssiuns are based. umE Irem the iduvir ies thenieh a beig egular 2 Thrr data ate eithet generated and mterpteice
mdne th alle ted
Miri nment
Banh inte thi prenew I adre ef innsulanis, mitutes, whene duers af apprnal prmides thr
In un-lunrr artihe stall 4 In semmirt f labata generall from prenigams unn runes or resear - In-lumisr aentifu sall - 10 mvmaane to (E data with an alduimtal manle et authorits 1 he : deselgpment and ma keung deis 3 tments an enk from the pahln hn alv from ther € uni ai l hut thent prudu :1 Me E ant à usa n isisutman The mulural aterests e the mariss Indunaul LUINTAL - A1 suall Mr anded s smsulants ate eshrt nAN d lned te the agen a sieh t sommet sl Lalw itest ur ane unn - Ises 1 wlune arvivrs and expen commitice thev sit. wnlnut lnl lag luv lern salu ned ET the uprn un a div hnel a usalh mat aained H ontidentl mas ket, pla a haidh emsistrnt wth the cihn bles Ln's hwk at lew av hntor ir -
HHIE and unierse undes a and sal ony IMI
le andusti from revrare h
D
of ilentters these
sonvltat.t aTE ufien hidden ne
aatt
- 1.ltt - stalnan I rages fu the awanl a future + nt mnne t unpken  an HI puwlu mfe matin . mte au - ul h a - a the . ei thi hnnted thr ontta ng alun thegh shut-te a inT tna . = hkel t refiet a than hugtem - An6 alurs Jume Pa a - he aete al i tul m . : Heubk, M - Aa - - hP  1 .
the held a
Cateshamt NI thr (irnrtaltt e Dle  1he mt smmen problem with indusstsall gen - etatel data - a jmit qualns Derph - emed lv dd data sulmitted in 17 tn the thr malnjin Admant tatenmn iv In indusir tath 1 and Ihug a addnne u supyua lnwl petitions sinne Helet Lrv amurplum Alunnt hall el the femul addtne utnpLnt niigmally suhmmer : the Im Imul ael Hhug Admmat.atem hne hrrn H - a - 1 har T alipalcls supjotied shir regula funhr plee Iiee al thrrlene hun trqued wul iepirved
then amnus
