SYMPTOMS AND THE LN3WNOHIANS-OHDIN IN THE SICK BUILDING WOHGNAS A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H. complaints associated with the "sick building syndrome At same time, themicro-environment (environmental
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT the
et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire The symptoms were more common .B build-
In a cross-sectional invesnganon 5 * building. office buildings built over the last 9 years with a validated were meatured on a linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and characteristics 5 the brearhing zone rather than area direct relationship between the level of complaints E air samples) E characterized by measuring temperanure, quality parameter : not described. Skov et a (1967) t relarive humidity, respirable suspended 'pmound car- amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern 1 bon dioxide, noise level, lighting inuensiry, relacive hu town halis and 14 older control buildings. A level ol 1 midiry, and airflow. No relarionship E seen between toms was related 8 - "feecing" factor (carpets, upholstery. the degree of symptoms and age, educarion. or duration and horirontal surfaces) ad the "macro-molecular I of employment at the building or time spent in the 1 nent" of dust. They also demoostrated a relationshio between hn on a daily basis. Starissically, complaint were the oumber of hours spent photocopying and using carbonles significantly more frequent among smoking € Envi- Kdoo paper and the level of complaints. Other Hudies have ronmental characteristics associated 1 de increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985) complainu levels in this group included decreased airfow and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute models, chere was an association between respirable A cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome by mea- pended particulases and the levels of boch mucous mem- suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertaon et brane and sysemic complaints. Satirfaction wish * P (1965) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. thermal environment e predicted by percepaion of dreft ferences la the concentrations of environmental pollutants R not clearty contribute to the degree of symptoms, berween rooms in a mechanically and a naturally ventileted although regression models did suggest t complaints building. They studied the rooms with the I complaint Here not independent of thermal parameters. - I I and used area samples. Skov et de (1987) did demoo- inaensiry wes also associated S complaints. I strate a relationship berween symptoms and both ares 1 mudies of % sick building syndrome I cramine ples measuring dust and - "macro-molecular" fraction. i
humidification. irrespective of the
.
x of the buildings. A
velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended par- a indoor air quality complaints.
ticulases 1 dry-bulb semperature. In regression
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
1 exposures simultaneously and include prycho le area I
I measures a idenify predictors of complaints in
Area samples la buildings may not be representative of a exposures la different points in single rooms Physical characteristics soch a windows and partitions, computers, and sbelving may infuence air currents. Radiant I may
indoor spaces. INTRODUCTION
Complaints termed the € building syndrome" have lead OI uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, most pot led to oumerous investigations in the last is years. E are hutants resuh from point sources, o they will be diluted - a thought to occur primarily a newty constructed I I subject .n farther removed from the soarce. The micro 4 E and, at least in the past, were thought to be due a vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelen. - different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroe- # variety of causes have been identibed le specifk settings. meat of a building le addition. all applied occupational and inchuding inadeouate temperature and relative bumidity $ environmental bealth research that attempas 01 relate dose lo trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds beakb effects sufien from the problem that dose is penerally and formaldchyde. microorganisms, environmental sobacco measured at several points in time I then extrapolated lo 1 umoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicle exhaost or allow developmem of exposure classifications over decades spent and contaminated air and boiler fumes, fbers released # most heakh effects are meeured as - 1 1 ol from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Wbere the variability of sampling A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnepan where the level of symptoms Aru change not merely trom et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to bour, such - stratep most fail. (Robertson et al. 1985) : unable os identify diflerences in artempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the $ wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (temper- eavironment and set these characteristics in relacion a d ature). relative humidity. air velocity. formaldehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at a given point in I This itive or nepative ions between several rooms le a building report presents results of a crom-sectional investigation of a with narural and . building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using a self-administered. linear analog. where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom E I . Amistam Prolesor of Medione und ol Industrial 3 Environmental Heahh Sciences at the Univeruty of Pasburgh Schoob of Medicine and Public Heahh. P. Collepy a Director. Environmental Heahh E Salety. Camepe-Mellon Univeruty. Pitsburgh. PA.
(Kreiss and Hodgson 1964; Hodgson and Kreiss "(9061 marily to mechanical ventilation. The same proup of authors
results is greater than the difference la avenge samples, and No investigations in a peer-reviewed literature I
