Poliuter data

by Samucl S. Epstein
The auhor surveys the record of
indust uri-generated data
Emalating enklen e shums 2 marams un data-
from Khuss madrqua 1 biased merpretation ma
mpulatam. suppresshm and 3 lo outright de.
NEm Inm-ate commonpla Le esperiall when
prohtahle les hmakgirs are mohed. Alarmmgh.
Mnh enden e I jumhes strong reservations as 01
the abdus of wr data developed bu institumons or
indn aluals hhune nomum intetest are dueith or
Informatum e the uneu of C onumk and
pulan al INTHET Drunen-making al all leveb ol gm.
erument sunklmant the analalshty of a buds of in
lurmatum, in the han of la his h the relative merits
al ahernate puln irs an he anah eed and cunsidered.
If thn mlun matem en data base ie lar nished ur imal
ul. then whatert de INHMIN JTE tea hed saus abobe
ukan un un alul, threatenng the laben of demar
à merwhel hmang Lull al all beneht and mk
3 on whn la num tegulaten des ISHMS are based,
Irem ihr mulinares themehes bemg
a Ihre data are ethet generated and mterpeeted
turm and unnerser undes tontr. 5 le mdustn

melure th atles ted

wire gourmment
LUBES

- . a - in * to Vante

tegulat.

Bunh inte thn paexew n a sadre of sonsultants.
muitutes. whuse stamp ul appranal pronides the

In m-hunr 7 urutitu stall in In ommet al labena generall from presignn unnerues or resranh
In-hume wentith uall - IXH mmune to seat dana wnh an addunal manile of anherit Thr
. RMB and sah onsa arus presutes from texarch identirs of theve sonsulata atr often hidden new
anl devehpenent and mar kemg deparments. any onh fram the puhlu bul alu from ther oun unnel-
HENS le hutt then pendun m jEim rw mtn un MIN ut instrutum Themduurul mereus of theve
urih li commen al labun. atore and unnersunes nas whur athur and rapen tommittees thev sil.
halunut lah hung hus lere a ulu ned mn the inpen in il div hnd JIL usualh mamtained m ontidemal
market, - pin IK a hatelh tonurnt wth the ethn bb las kwk at a len tax hnter in diav n frum
: unit. 4 1s Jhu mt mmme to ungwken ptrame Canshame IN thr (irnnatun el Dale
and HLIV 1"inhn mien matum a met pertwm The must sommen problem hnh mdentrull gen
munte m y uh hus aus prhenrd a dun mtriesol etated data 1 av Junn quales Derph L nas emed In
muhnin rirn theugh thn hmmed thr maingu à dau submated in 1967 In the
mete hkeh le teliet shue -irm, tath- 1 and Dhug Admandration FF DA In mdun
Summet ) - A 4 1 tar 4 monpatunal undrn ranmin lewerl addene petawn a ngmally suhmmed le the
hl 1 F uf the f a 1 ifeulik a unruh a I8 Faxsl and Dug Admmatatum hure hern me sum

: losed the
to agen ies

-

nicuse Induntrul montat 1 al muall Jn anded $ imsuhan ate eshet net

utumpenn vesapmalnm
thr
somma mg
perepann r
en than kug-tem, mteteus
Rage Motunt sir a Anng Ihr 1- à Siersa - L L
i HT . il tahinh hn Im a 10
dumating
hn hant
In

the held ol INL uputwmal land emmemmental Laisu a

Ihe ma tes ragri In the awand L futur

and salues
de haul addune
m supyum
petitions
har mal
IN
pleve in
l' an - a 4
hurhn
aleputeh
Ite
inparted
- - LG
C.

then Commus
shu
uppaned regula
and therten hune tepmed uhe

simer Heilet La somplamed Alunt hall ol the