HKE2228112
SANTA BAKBARA SANTA -

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
a - : 14. 2 : avel 50
7 : a H VIIN 2
IUPARTMI 7 : : timm
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willian H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Rescorch roundation
715 Kuir Lands Visto May
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. Fishman:
and Salk.

: - a : In M IM b

a
-
LA : MILKMA :

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolla research coctunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzynes
should fit in well with ongo ing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnrent of a focal center for rcsearch proorams on oncodevelopmental
prublems is parti:ularly inely. It will be 0! orvat potential importance for
pulling tcgetter vrork by a number of laboratories directed touard isolation,
characteriztaion and dotornination of the sionificance of huran oncodevelopmental
antigens such as alphafetoproteir and carcinocssbryonic antigens.
One of the goals of the work in our laboratoru is to determine the relationship
of increased serun concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinoger
exposure in humans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systers clearly derion-
strate tne 1 anirals pasocxo to hepatocarcinogens have elevated serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developrant of Falionant (imors. It is hoped that syster: tic
study of human scra frun difforect ources will determing if serum AFF concun-
In addition, the role of env inumental fac tors such as hormonal influences on
the production of oncodevelogimental gene prihts can be further explored in
different sy: tems. Such data implics that the prodiu tion of oixcodzvelopmental
gene products by tunor cells is net a fixed property of a siven tumoir but is
We look fonrard to working with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundat fon
in furthering research in the important subjert of oncodeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoger exposure.

subject to environmerta controls.

expression.
Best regards,
Stewart Srll, M.D.
Professor
SS/nb