Los ANGELES TIMES Sunday March 20, 1977
: ALOOK a a a TEST
- :
. -To judge 49 thatorrent A; protésts - the smyad received, a sizable por- : of the. calorie-counting puclic a agrees. Long accustomed to a cross - firg R, criticism from industry and consumer activists, the FDA has beenr citizen demands to liber- ate saccharin. And moves arerafcot i Cangress to amend the. Food pur Drug Act.s hait I a 1 fy There's been H tremendous.cutcry from all aver the country, a s EDA spokesman . Washington said: A ranges from anguish a to anger: We've- "never been this busy. :The FDA; for-its part: says F was only doing what the- law required. the law-specifically the Dela-4 ney clause Congress inserted. in the Food and Drug Act in 1958 says that:1 "po-ficed) additive shail be deemed tobe safe A it la found after casm tion of the safethat food additives: to Thé ciause doesinct allaw I bal evidence R cancer H humans -
The Ban.on de Saccharin:
1 law PASTE as the loge R: may : seem 5. the géneral public, medical researchers say: that the animal a a périments upan-which such regilato- baséd 8 have a a ryedecisions are sen- siblef rationale-andi. that they € bave adirect-bearing. on risk 6 bu-: mans 5 a - : N%: STIK true, researchers acknowledge; in thafthe rats at the: center of this fur- a a consumed each day the saccharin - equiralent 4. reughly'1,000 eans a. : lowecalorie soit drink But they con- N sidér it misleading-if not dishonest - as the calorie counc!l bas;. that suggest, 0 disparity makes the tirelevant 6. humans. : researcir - - People who drink oniy one can a diy A a saccharia soft drink € a a comparably lower risk of cancer. But ai 213 million peopie, a the € collective population hazard could ms add. upto several thonsand cases of blad- dercancer: a ALDOIS onra Era scientists - Moreover, nts € led the note; FDA. rat 9 à I
: : -
tion bésteged by
- to 5 ROBEFT GILLE Times $ lence Writer Does it make a nse to ban a poguiar food additive on he strength of what. and. happens when hundred rats E offsprings eat de additive The Calorie Control Council, Inc. R. Allanta thinks not. The trade argani- comes E manufacturers "6 dietary : dellars la thelast few days for E-m - inistration for its decision 6 ban saccharin, C Cthe oniy nonnutritive- sweetener curre atly cn the market 7 "Even the E SVI willing 6 admit à thère 's * basic difference betwee L rats and humar 1 - cne such ad in the. meA Street Joarnal: observed. "It's: just another ex mpie of the arbitrary mtire of big guremment" and
.
t5
in 0
- -
Lug: doses?
sation, whose $ 0,000 annual budgatia which are appropriate forthe evaiua- food # drink, bas spent thousands tiduce cancer is # or animal": page newspaper ads across the coun- at ancing of risemd becefit. Nar does it beracing is Food and Drug Ad- I rediire: the: ban tor be: bacect on F
ee
a
7035437
0087432
TIMN
