May 16 96. 8:44
P.11
Chicago Tribune
MAY 9T 1996
Philip Morris, UST offer plan to curb
tobacco
teen use of
Proposal would prohibit FDA regulation, ban 'loosies and vending machine salès
By Barbara Sullivaa STAFF Warss TRIBUNE Philip Morris Cos. and UST Inc OM) of the largest tobacco companies. went on the ollen- sive Wednesday, proposing sweeping legislation to curb teen tobacco use. The proposals, which would include a ban on vending machine and single-cigarette sales and impose curbs on : advertising. go further than restrictions sought by the Food and Drug Administration, the companies said. The quid pro quo, however, is that the VO3 be prohibited from any regulation of tobacco prod- ucts "it there's FDA involvement. the deal $! not on the table, said Ellen Merio. Philip Morris corvorate affairs. are not meant as a compromise. and restricting tobacco usage. this is a solution. beneficial.
3/1
EURAL MARAN
AP pooto
USA senior vice presidént of Steve Parrish. a Philip Morris Merlo also said the proposals news conference Wednesday. or first step toward rapproche- pany and UST is the biggest ment, with the government's maker of snuff and chewing mounting push toward regulating tobacco. The two companies This goes way beyond a com- support from other tobacca promise. Merlo said. "We think compantes, said their proposal Merlo said further that the industry fund spent over a five- proposals are so comprehensive year period to help implement that unilateral action by Philip the legislation. Morris and UST would not be Some anti-amoking advocates, "We couldn't implement these posals as nothing more than a actions on our own. without leg- blatant smoke screen to keep islation, she said. "tr only one the FDA out of the picture. Phuip Morris. maker of Marl- kids from the blandishments (of
Cos. senior vice president, at a which have not yet received would include a $250 million however. saw the tobacco pro- "They reaitze that the FDA is most serious about protecting others. is the tobacco industry). and they Ssz CIGANETTTS, PACE 2
or OMI companies participated. there would be no impact. boro Cixarettes among the world's S biggest tobacco com-
