DAILAS MORNING NEWS
Dallas, Texas
April 14, 1954

Tobacco Firms Ask
New Cancer Studies
NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing growers and tobacco
Industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers.
tional" statements linkdng smoking Among those quoted by the com-
and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer
alded picture of the relationship of Institute of the United States Gov-
cigarettes and bealth and called ermment, port that the which said in a 1953 re-
research to estab- not been established. Several
lish the basic cause of the disease. ot the institute's scientists aiso
The tobacco industry research were cited.
committee issued a booklet con- Runyon Others quoted were the Damon
previously published state: more research, and
ments by thirty-six cancer author cer Surgeon Dr. Max Chicago Can- who
itiès doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons Cutler, may
by olher cancer experts that tobac- develop lung cancer partly because
The earliest, whitten in 1923, sald conclusion of a direct relationahip
there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientitic apd
none that would produce turnors. hazardous."
The most recent; dated last March "It smoke in the lungs were a
16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of
be done before causes of lung can- have had it long ago," cancer, the
cer or any other kind of eanoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report Little,
The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratory, Bar Har-
S January to combat mounting bor, Maihe.
charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the
up of nearly every major eigarette University of Texas School of Medi-
nanufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Inaur

for exhaustive
taining

had

cause of lung cancer
Fund, which called for
of smoking but that to accept the

8 causes lung cancer.

we'd all

can be established

director of the Roscoe B. Jackson
ance Company and British author-
itles. Neariy all those quoted
agreed that no conclusions çould be
reached until a absolute cause for
lung cancer has been established
The report was described by an
industry spokesman as an "in-
terim" statement, pending an-
nouncement of the choice of a
prominent scientist to supervise
basic cancer research to be f-
nanced by the industry. That scien-
tist will decide how the industry's
cancer-research money is to be
spent. No date has been set for his
At the last count, the committee
said; there were more than 850
cancer United research grants in the
States alone, "any one of
which might produce evidence to
unlock the secrets of lung cancer,

selection.

-