WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRIBUNE D. 25,605 s. 49,326 WACO METROPOLITAN AREA MAR 9 ise3
FCC Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard-- Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission frons going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette So long as cigarettes are lega! merchandise, it dnes not sccm right or logical that onc medium of advertising be forbidden the producer w hile newspapers, magazines, billboards and c ount CT displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expected 10 review the FCC propnsal and to look again at the federa! Jaw, which expires Junc 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC sald it is proposirg to refuse Jicenses 01 broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising because of evidence that smoking is injurioun in health and the FCC has an obligation le protect the public interest. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals 0) do as they please 50 long as lhey doa't harm another. It also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if nok don't mention somefhing, maybe it won't Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democret, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com- merce Commitice, snid in reference 11 the proposed FCC rule that the ngency had overstepped the bounds of its authority. le said he doubts that FCC has any right to tell an advertiser what he could not say in his advertiscments, Rogers said Congress will take a cluse Icok at the whole question of regulutions on television and radio advortising content, not only as to the Federat Communications Commission but in regard to Federal Trade Commission practices as The stakes involved extend beyond the business of broudcasling. They 03 to the heart of whether government burcaus should he allowcd to go beyond
advertising.
Hazardous to Your Heulth.
hurt you and will disappear.
well. 2
tho linits of due proccss and the law,
