C
ss("/3
AT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira Nrw York Timer Servier
wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars -
made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even in recent
($2.86) compared with 22 panies € advertise on TY after
TAIPEI The Marlboro cow- up sales of $119 million. ln 1986, trade talks between the United 1 Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for R boy in his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Siaics und Taiwan Wang Chicn- pack of Teiwan-made cigarettes. ghng from his mouth, has come le eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly is shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis ionn. His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered R ing in Japan are more liberal. Com- guitar-playing. jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted give out ond cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign Television This frenetic, fast-growing 0a- cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawod in the United States in 1971. tioe of nearly 20 million people ly because both Taiwan and Japan school students - 12, years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-standiog restrictions. are DOM smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry a label that, iubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exports of like that? It's O.K. to have cigareties them sake of health, don't smoke too made in America, not Taiwan. IT American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" - - warning much milder To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year, re- joy a $16 billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in si billion in new sales, the United States. But those people mandated in the United States. Ufacturers have essentially intro- In Japan, which has . population are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe companies say Amencan duced cigarette advertising to the of 120 million and where people "unu - human being, you woo't do cigarettes are selling wellin Taiwan
and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
out this city, next to posters of - peroent. ér of Winston cigarettes.
"They to amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting
for most of the growth in American go said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-
year and for the first time, E According to the Brown & Wil- rette companics promote
roughly translated, says, "For the
ialand, and that has created a furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year. that. Oovernment officials bave accused imports have more than tripled ing teen-agers of take dn moking. more than 00 percent last operation that had monopolized percent by 1992. pressure from Washington. In the alcobol. $ cigarettes wEre dropped. sales said Jaw Shau-kong a sfacturers at - time when sales in and the Unitod States are way down laws is way up. According the U.S. 01
not RO much because of the adver. manufactur- tising as because they are of better thing wtong with the way they are dgareties are made of blended to bacco and have less tar than Tai- products and theu say wancse cigarettes which are not
American cigarette year, their
tbe American boty deny.
the past year. The market share &5 from 3 percent is 1986, and the promoting
companies of entic- American cigarettes increased 6 E vigorously deny there in any- quality and taste better. American
- charge the American companics tised, altbough it does now,
Department of Agriculture pro- thry have no pians to change American pressure 9 open their have they pusbed todo 10, they say.
blended.
The goverament-administerd dicts that it could grow to 15 8. 20 sales pitch.
Tbey are not lowed to advertix 5 small stores where cigarettes are tions. Cigarette manulacturér may
the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials say tbey resent on television or la newspapert Nor The sovernment agreed to allow markets le producta that éndanger They can advertise only througb others into the business oaly under people's health. like cigarettes and posiers hung near cigarette racks or year since stiff resirictions on for. "This really burts our feeling, sold, a well u through promo- a American cigarettes in Taiwan II. tbe United Sutes docs legisiator. not en- also place 120 ada - year in € have soared, generating much- courage its people to amoke, why zines, cach ol whosc droulation icl- peodod growth for American man- export 10 Taiwan? Younger people dom excoods 200,000. and tbe number of anti-imoking Causc of American ada. They hire rettes accountod for leas than 1 moet of Agriculture, people B Tai- difficult lor Sunok boys to resist, 70,000 retail outlets licenaed to sell
femaics are amoking - lot be Bdore last year, foreign ciga- young attractive 19-yoar-ol girla oent of tbe market Taiwan Suuvon short skirts 01 sive "P cig- posed strict quotas on Depart- arettes free in nightclubs. k's a digaretus, banned imports at E and then it becomos a habit. It's cigarettes and imposed stiff tariffs.
EA forcip
immoral."
: rorwlt inported cigaretie cost
4/9000SZ )/
