BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
- a N
Area stores
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For tha Delly Camera nors. kids. kar
referring to the Increased enforce- penally lur selling tobacco_to.a ml: tried to buy the cigarelles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busl-. Store clerks unlucky oFq8nous nesses this week during a crack- getcaught were issued asummons- down on selling cigarettes to mt: to appoar in court. 1 Tho maximum The sting. condueted on the eve horis 00ZS.E line. of. the American Cancer Soclety's The uting involved two tcams. Orcat American Smokeout. was in- Each includeu u uniformed omcer. tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain clothes officer. and two legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School sirts, Who Police targeted gas stations, con: giris' parents signed a waiver al- vënience, drug, grocery and dis. lowing themto Take partin thc.op: "Taw has never been enforced, said The Juveniles wore told not to JOPINOSL Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell We're letting the stores know had to show identification.
count stores. Until recently, the eratlon. this is going to happen, ahc sald,
the cigarettes. and, if asked, they (Sce DOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores :
1 :
for
sales
cigarette (From Page (OT
to minors The clerk at Colony Market,
At the Conoco atation, 3000 2020 Broadway, pegan to cry 28uh Sly one of the girts asked when she was sue sum. the cashler for a pack of Mart mons, ous cald a was a stur a boro Lights. Officer Rob Hauke- dent and couldn't ROR the ness, In plain clothes, stood in court costs. HAlikêness poul : Tina-hehind her to witnese thç CONTOTO her, saying she could: A placard near the cash regis- the District Attorney to do com a ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity ecrvice instradof paying No 'ai No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clorka, not thc store Thc buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the: drlver's license, which showed court costs. she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it to cd at the license, set it down on stores or clerks, she said. punish: and sold her the though, when you pee clerks Afier they left, Haukeness "Roulder Polica targeted 15: stepped dn and identified him Loloros and cler ks aluailbut four eelf 03 a police officer, Manka recelved summonses. came In and wrote the clerk a Thie wock'a I see them ask for an year. Tha Arst sting, conducted. E I think they're going to 2 in Scptember, targeted 16 stores: fuse the cale," Haukeness sald. und ST clerks received Rum:
transaction. cation. counter. the cigarettes. summons "When "But they never do."
prubably work out a dealwith-
à ownr, "Al:
ing, you might think otherwise. cry: operation was the. punnos tobacco sale stine this:
monses.
