Vol. 285 No. 23
EDITORIALS
1317
The New England Journal of Medicine official Organ of The Massachusetts Medical Society Founded le 1812 as the NEW EXOLAND JOURNAL or MEDICINE AND SURGERY and continued in 1828 as Vol. 1 of the Bostox MEDICAL AND SURGICAL JOURNAL PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATIONS or THK MASSACRUSErrs MEDICAL SOCIETY Claude E. Welch, M.D., Chainaan Joseph Garland. M.D., EDITOR EMERITUS Franz J. Ingelfinger, M.D., EDITOR ALEOCIATE EDITORS George S. Richardson. M.D., Book Reviews Robert O'Leary, ASSISTANT EDITOR EDITORIAL BOARD
ACTION ON ASBESTOS ASBESTOS workers are unintentional victims of industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary fibrosis, pleural calcification, mesothellomas and lung cancer. Asbestos exposure is now widespread, wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex- posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or ferruginous bodies may be, there is no doubt that electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers ease in the general population at this time, the presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by most chemical and physical means and can float freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods. Asbestos diseases have a long latent period, 20 sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos be made now, on the basis of "reasonable probabili- must > rather than after a delay for a precise definition These thoughts are reinforced by the work of
involving not only air
also but
drinking water,
Alexander Marble,M.D. Samucl Proger, M.D.
Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al- Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-
F. Jane Desforges, M.D. Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.
Ronald A. Malt, M.D.
Arnold L. Smith, M.D. years or more. We therefore believe that more
of dose-response relations.
Robert E Johnson, 9 Norman a Levinsky, M.D. Francis D. Moore, M.D. Charies A. Sanders, M.D. Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D. Ronaid A. Arky, M.D. Dana L. Farnrworth. M.D.
John W. Litdefield. M.D, Murphy and associates in this issue of the Journal Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, (p 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in Louis Weinstein, M.D. new ship construction include better than John R. David, M.D. exposure data and indicate a high incidence of as- Edward A. Gaensier, MD. bestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-
usual
Howard Bleich, M.D.
Isadore > Rosenberg, M.D. Milton C. Paige, 4 BUSINESS MANAGER
tions. A second study of Murphy et al.: reports two cases of pleural disease (one mesothelloma) in workers who sanded asbestos foor tiles. Since the
AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au- und should consult "Information for Authors," This malerial thors simulated the working conditions and found may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour- concentrations of 1.3 fbers per milliliter of room nel, or it may be obtained from the Journal office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of currently CASZ REPORTS, usualiy published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 10 fbers every gence" section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled cine la covered by copyright. The Jourwal does not hold itself A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation- REPRINTS: The fournal does not stock reprints of the arti- tion of those who are exposed in their occupations. ALTHOLGH all advertising material accepted is expected to biologic effects and the physica! characteristics of SUBSCRIPTION PRICES (worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is de be established with interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates are in U.S. fundsonly, confidence. Although we endorse these recommen- MicROFILM volumes available 01 regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for through University Microfilms, 31S N. First Street, Ann technical controls based on existing COMMUNICATIONS shouid be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as- land Journal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects
manuscript, including references, should be typed double used threshold space, and all material, including figures, should be submit- reference to articles reporting closelv related cases. A very fbers remains in the short case report or a description of a technic submitted as a "BRIE RECORDING" should be limited to 500 words, MATERLAL printed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period. responsible for statements made by any contributor. NOTICES should be received not later than noon on Mon- of day, 24 days before date of publication. cles published. Requests should be sent to the author. imply endorsement by the Journal, Arbor, Michigan 48106. chusetts 02115.
values. limit these lung,
A fber per milliliter of figures suggest that
ted in duplicate.
room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per an alarming number will still accumulate over a -OI al Academy of Sciences panel has called for control asbestos emissions at the source and for protec- The report also calls for further rescarch on the
conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance does not asbestos fibers; such data are
needed urgently "if a knowledge.
on cells and tissues are important and must be con-
