H K82223022
Life Sciences Vol. 15. pp- 1291-1300 Printed in the Y-S.A.
Perganon Press
METAROLISH à BENZOLa) PYEDE BY KICROSONTS h RON TISSUES b PRECOUNT NND FITAL MAMSTERE Irene Y. Manz, Ronald : Ra smunsen, and : Timothy Crockart Cancer Research Institute, Untveraity of California, . Franciaco, and Depart- -ent of Community ard muimme Enl Medieine, Univereity of Calitornia, Irvine*. (Received in final form 26 August 1974) Summary Pretreatment of hansters with benzo ta)pyrene (BaP) grestly Incrcased the sl vitre metaboliam of 3 by lung alerosonns fron prognant I atare, s p lese effect on the metabolim of BaP by I miero- aomee. The produetion of various metaholites of Bar E lung niero- I war inereaned to different extentar 3-hydrexy-BaP (3-CH-BaPi was ene : the najor nataboliten E netabolic yielde of € 498-ANDAPAYPOSPASP (9,10-diol) and 7,8-diol vere Increased tares than that ef E 4,5-diel. In the i of liver nierosonas, only the yields of 9,10-diol and 7,8-diol were incressed ovar the contrel levels, The presence of eyclohexene oxide a tha incubation € tures decreaned the production of the diols. Dasal-level enryme activities in placental, fetal - and fetal ak in microsones in metaholizine RP were very low. Pretreatnent of pregnant hainatars with : indaced Bap-netabolizing enzymes in tetal tisrue : fold. Banso (alpyrene (Dar) ie . carcinogen and anvirental contaninant that is found in coal tar, nineral oll, car exhaust, tohacc snoke, anoked foode, ote. (1). In vitro station shoved that netabolie activation of € is required for ita intaraction with proteins and nuclele acide (2,m. Farller studian with rat livar preparations 14,5) and hanater liver microsomer (6,7) shoved that bar le metahelined mainly 8 phenolie and dihydrodihydroxy talol) derivativen, and 9 quinomes : are ensynatie or air owidation peoducte & marahle phenolic netabolitas (4,5) : vell : acme untitentified nore polar netabolites, The metabolies et Bat han generally been neamured b the production of 3-hydroxy- 2 (1-08- which ie often ons of the major netalelites In vitro 31. 3-0H- DaP 41 torie 8 evitured celle (0), hut it above very 11etle interaction vi th DER in yitro (6) 3 has not been shown 3 % carcinogenic. & the other hand, K-region epowider ef related pelycyelte aronatic hylrocarton (PAN)bind to cell-
1291
