LOS ANTRIFS TI:ES
Los Angoles, Californio
October 20, 1954
E been proved.
lale L'niversity

harrl upon the premise that hination n' a partirular type
anection hetween riea in each nf the three categories
smoking and disease ha: has alrcady produred 'a sale
Might Take Six Monthe one : is. so all can be made
Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. 11 not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Carence Cnok Littie.
compiete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad-
date, said tbat "some say sce visnry bnard and scient'fic di
should wait for more defini rector o: the Toharro Indus-
ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would
nne has said just what the de produre some nf "the defni
finitive evidence woud be." iive eviderre' tn winch Dr
: sand he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In has talk to the Ameriran "We wiil tackle
system was more important, line of the

Calls
Safe
Cigarettes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
la Overwhelming

cigarette osjt seientifie re-
search should prove which
should find
"since
one,
peo-
ple like to smoke cigarettes.
try Research Committee, de.
seribed the outlines nt stud-
Tackle Unknewns
research
industry's
program "We seek definitive

Expert
for

atatistician

tive evidence before develop-

NEW YORK Ort 61 (ILP) this iewnoint

The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eously many of the unknowns simultan
arette smoking with b o - h Hammond said the relation- in this feld of tobacen 11se in
lung cancer and heirt dis. ship of rigarette xmoking to relation to human health, he
ease is "ourrw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out-
once about developing "a safe health. than the relationship findings in an area where
cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to murh suggestive work has
cal scientist told the annual find : safe cigarette from heen done. The program nf
Tobacco Industry Research inhacen, there are varinus relationshin hetween rrv rom-
Committee announced some of 1ypes 2 fiters, and there are mental factors, includ in a
the details nf itk scientife re- variona terhn'ques n! euring The most

something should be done at from the standpoint of public

the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recognizes tha: we
prove surcessful in six do not have todav the experi
months, with iuck," he said menta! evidence that will per-
is tobaren, he Raid, and it may set was important nrogert

meeting cf the American migh:
Cancer Society today.
At the same time the sclen-
the advisory board of the
srarrh program a h

Outlines Described
are
There various types nl
he thar some fortunons rom- up
LOS ANGEIES EXAMINER
los Ange les, California
October 20, 1954

mit scientific ennclasions re.
garding the raure and Ffert
smnkire and lune eancer
a direet xudy nt
current lung cancer rase: a
10 medical centers im :he : 'nt
ed States and Canada.

It will Include numerous
studies of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers,
as well as tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. The apecifio research
grants, financed Aq the TIRC,
will be announced later.

HEALTHSTUDY
NO TOBACCO
NEW YORK, Oct. 19 -
A broad sbe-point study seek
Ing knowledge whether eigarets
or other forms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health haz.
ards was announced today.
It is the first announcement
of - big research proxram
headed & the sclentifie ad-
visory board & the Tobacco In
dustry Researeh Committee

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062