NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A campaign to woo Dide County teenagers away from amoking la under way bere as part of a nation-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groups, the society hopes 9 persuade a large pro- portion of the nation's young people that amoking may lead a cancer. - Key wrapnn la the : E . palgn, le a nim strip detalling thr rave against tebacen, It I already T shown to - a enth graders In 15 schools $ edurational televinion, and will 1 brnadcant tn minih gradn arience students a the apring. The seventh-grade directed by teacher Bill program, Evans, inchuded a panel discussion 5 which students directed ques- tiona at Dr. Francis N. Cooke, representing the society. Teachers I have talked to agree that although amoking la not a serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu- dents are approaching the age when the problem will be, faced," Erane sald: Mata value A the nimstrips d thal = gives studenta "a logkal argument with whleh they eonld refuse a . : h . when enrouraged by th atrele et trienda," ba I I Nim atrip la also being ahman live lo senior bis h achools in the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October 9, 1960
Education Cuts Youth
de Fag H through a leenage at the Lagu. Mar Hotel I clomure
4 A
Habits program A the high schools.
American eigaret moking can by reduced R k cent These statistics were presenled Saturday A Walter G. ! director of public educalion for the American Cancer Society, here for the Florida Division, ACS, annual meeting I said the E € program was directed at leensiers as - I for "curbing I became d the soclety's eeeviction that smoking : - i ol fatal lung 2 proepects of reducing cigaret smoking b one-fifth were ibinn in a pilol program conducted qu 7,000 high achool students at Purland, Ore, 1 1 I dis d Sondenta Y parents I wne most Likely le 1 Smoking increased in & successive high school grades. Among boys participating in the Oregon aurvey, 14.5 pes cent payour as freshmen. 15.2 per cent : sopbemores. 1L1 per eent as juniors, and #4 : I A correspond- ing figures for girt stodents were 46 per cent, 10.6 per cent, a or the students. 258 per cent a a boys smoked regularty et least onre - ! a did 116 per cent of the girts - Education programs againat smoking reduced the mmber ol new umokers anong boys from 13 per cent le 1.7 k cent, and beginning sirl emokers from M a 1r PROGRAM EFFECTIVE Jamee mid & figures projected I . four-ggar peried indicaled that R per eent a high school spupry could 8 deterred from smoking through the ACS educational progrem The stody, h 1 peyraaal that the most dfactive approach was in showing F long term Kfect ol moking. lesving the decision s the I + Least ellective, he related : the aimple instruction not . I As part of a antiemoking education prograts. a 6 has I a Aim drip illuatrating allecta a r E for Kreming i Het achool classroons.
aenume à Hgaret habit:
-
E per cent and MJ per rent.
per cent
e+
a MULLEN ecooro 6> X
