FF
Principal Investicator/Prooran Direcion (Last, first. middle).
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH POSITION TITLE
Give the lollowing information lor the key personne and consuliants and collaborators. Begin with the principal
investicator/ororan director. Photocopy this page lor each person.
NAME
Constance Smith
Postdoctoral Fellow
EDUCATION (Begin with baccafaureate or other initial prolessional education such as nursing and include postdoctoral training.)
YEAR CONFERRED 1986 1994
INSTITUTION AND LOCATION Weslcyan University, Middletown, CT University of California, Berkeley, CA Emory University School of Medicine
DEGREE B.A. Ph.D
FIELD OF STUDY Biology Molecular & Cell Biology
Postdoc 1994-present Anatomy & Cell Biology
RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Concluding with present position list, le chronological order, previous employment experience, and honors. Key personnel include the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution ot the project. Key personnel typically will include all individunts with doctoral or other profassional degrees but in some projects will include individuals at the masters or baccalaureate level provided they contribute in a substantive way to the scientific development or execution of the project. Include present membership on any Federal Government public AJOSIADE committee List, 5 chronological order, the titles. all authors, and complete references to all publications during the past three years and to representative earlier publications pertinent 10 this apolication If the list ol publications in the last three years exceeds No pages,
select the most pertinent publications. DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES. RESEARCH/PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Medical
MA. CA.
11/86 - 12/87 - 01/88 07/88 08/88 - 06/94 07/94 - 08/94 09/94 present HONORS 1993 1994 1995-1996 PUBLICATIONS Papers
Research Assistant, Anatomy & Cell Biology, Harvard Doctoral Candidate .5 the laboratory of Dr. David A. Biology, Univ of California, Berkeley. University of Missouri, St. Louis, MO.
School, Boston,
Participated in biochemical purification oft tropomodulin in the lab ofVelia M. Fowler Research Assistant, Molecular Biology, Research Institute of Scripps Clinic, LaJolla, Assisted in polyclonal antibody production and purification in the lab of Velia M. Fowler. Postdoctoral fellow, in the laboratory ofDr. Shirley T. Bissen, Dept. of Biology, Postdoctoral fellow in the laboratory ofDr. Marla B. Luskin, Dept. of Anatomy and Cell Best poster award, West Coast Regional Developmenta. Biology Conference Invited speaker for minisymposium, Society for Developmental Biology meeting National Research Service Award, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Weisblat Molecular and Cell
Biology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA
Stroke
Smith, C.M. and Weisblat, D.A. (1994) Micromere fate maps in leech embryos lineage - specific differences in Smith, C.M., Lans, D. and Weisblat, D.A An investigation of cellular mechanisms of epiboly in leech embryos Bissen, S T and Smith, C.M mRNA synthesis is required for asymmetric cell division during a critical period of Fowler, V.M. and Smith, C.M (1988). Inhibition of tropomyosin binding to F-actin by tropomodulin, a new tropomyosin-binding protein from the human erythrocyte membrane. LCellBiol 107: 681A
rates of cell proliferation. Development 120:3427-3438.
(Submitted to Development)
early leech development (In preparation).
Abstracts
PHS 398 (Rev. 9/91)
(Form Page (9 Page 50650464
FR
Numbor pagos consocubvely at the bottom thaoughout the application no eor use suffixes E as la 3b
