True-Tal lae Questlons S the Chenistry and Psychophyslology of Odor and Flevor 1. T - Some nodorn workers suggest that nccurate mansuramant of vibrational frequency (in the far infrared, for example) of nn unknown odorant wili pernit prediction of its quallty and intenslty. T No elenentel substance, not even he Ildes or ozone hes eny odor; Instead they react with the mucose fonning new products whlch are smelled; but T Sone odorants have sterle or vibrational propert Les which force the cone luslon thet they are odor less whon they are not. I1, 1 Present evidence strongly suggests thet all fferent parts of the ol factory receptor ares, Ilke tho retina In the eye, are que itty-spocific. T Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor T No one yet has a fire clue as to the criticel reletion between the molecule and the receptor which permlts en odor perception. h The greater the secretion rate of mucous or sellve, the hlgher their pH, and both pH and tomperature influence the quallty of sensation in the 111. T The ident Instrumentel detector would respond to odors le the sane quantitative range as doos an enimal or human subject. 1 Such an Ideel detector hes not been developed.
sone elements possess taste.
surt face In order to be smelled,
chemicel senses.
>
Ihman observors with head In fixed position cen by virtue of the two Indopondert nostrils easiiy discern stereo sue 11 éffects, 1.e. they can tell whotier an odorant is at the right or left hand, wuch es one uses nis two ears in locat ing the source of a sound, - For certaln musk- liko conpounds, forty molecules ere sufficlent to trigger a hunon offact ory response v. - Adnptation to 000 olfactory qunlity does not significant ly reduce sensitivity to any other dissiel lar quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all sinllor qual lities. T F By employing a almliarities nethod of conpering qualities, one con now obtain ident Ity and degroes of difference without rocour se to trouble- vi. T Hunger lowers thresholds slightly to some food qua lities but not for T Ir is now possible to ident fy the intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull sinply by expert examination of the electrophysiological record taken trom approprlate odor or taste neurons. T Electrical stimulat lon of taste in unn yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkalind quality. T Direct electrical stlmulation of the olfactory sense has nover yet beon successfully accompllshed. VIL. T Although total anosala is rare In humans and ageusia even rarer, there is evidence that In analogy to color vision deficiences, sone people are Insensit tive to (only certein) qualities whi le having normal sensitivity to others. T Toplca anesthetics applled to the tongue show that different quellties 1 Certain endocrine diseese entltles make It possible for some people quite sensitively to "snell" such "odor less substances 09 sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to nornet by manipulation of endocr Ine levels. t onenopause wonon at the time of ovulation find certain odors extremely disegreeable whlle at other rines In the menstrun cycle these nome odors
sone words. others.
of taste disappear at different rates,
they wlit judge quite pleasant.
DK A
