LOS ANGPIFS TI'ES
Los Angeles, Californio
October 20, 1954
n
been proved,

hasel upon the premire that hination n' A partirular type
nnnection hetween riea- in each nf "he rhree ratrgories
rr smokine and disease 2 has already produred "a safe
Might Take Six Months ene it is, so all can be made
Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. 1 not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Carrnce Cnok Lit:e,,
compiete statistica! study to rhairman of the scientific ad-
date, said tha: "some sav we visnrv bnard and seient'fi di-
tive evidence before develop- try Resrarch (ommittee, de-
ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would
nne has said just what the de- produre some nf "the defni.
fintiie evidence wnut be." iive eviderce" in waich Dr
Hr sad he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In his ralk in the Ameriran "We wiil tackle simultan.
system was more important, line of the industry's research
migh: prove surceasful in six do not have today the experi-
months, "with ktck," he said menta! evidenee that will prr-

cigarette 16 s0. scientifie re-
search should prove which
should fidd one, "since peo-
ple like to smoke cigarettes."
rector o: the Tniarro
seribed the outliees nf stgd-
Tackle Unknewns

Calls
'Safe
Cigarettes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming
NEW YORK. Ort. 19 (1P

Expert
for

lale 1niiversity statistician

should

wait for more defini-

Indus-

this virwnoint.

The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eously many of the unknowns
arette smoking with both Hammond said the relation- in this fild of tobacen use in
lung cancer and heurt dis. ship nf rigarette smoking to relation to humun health. à he
ease is "overwhelming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the ou!-
something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We scek definitive
once about developing "a safe health, than the relationship fidiings in an area where
cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to murh suggestive work has
cal scientist told the annual find a safe eigarette" from hren done. The program nf
meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recngnizes tha: xr
Tobacco Industry Research tnhacen, there are varinus relationship hetween e rrm-
Committee anaounced some of types nf Riters, and there are mental factors, inclnd inn
the details nf iR seientiee re- varinus terhnuques n! euring The most

Cancer Society today.
At the same time the scien-
t'e advisory board of the
srarch program

Outlines Described
There are various types of
which i tobaren, he paid, and it may

mit scientific eonclasions rA-
garding the raure anri rFrrs
smnkire and lune eancer
important prrcert
eurrent lung cancer rase: in
10 medical centers in tee :n:
ed States and Canada,

he thar some fortuntors rom- Fet up was a dirre: suudy 2

90T ANGE LES EXAMINER
los Ange: les, California
October 20, 1954

It will Inelude numerous
studles of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers,
as well as tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. The apecirio research
grants, financed by the TIRC,
will be announced jater.

HEAITH

ON TOBACCO
YORK, Oct. 19-(P
A broad sbx-point study seek
Ing lnowledge whether eigarets
or other forms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health baz.
ards was announced today,
It is the first announcement
of a big research proxram
headed by the sclentifle ad-
visory board of the Tobaceo In.
dustry Rese arch Committee

NEW

(TIRC)

COR TI 14062