CCopyright 1987 by The Humana Press Inc.
All rights ot any nature, whatsoever, reserved.
BIN--RNNI0.R0-0IIILLLN

Applications of Neutron Activation
Analysis to the Study of Age-Related

Neurological Diseases

W. D. EHMANN," W. R. MARKESBERY,234 E. J. KASARSKIS,2
D. E. VANCE, S. S. KHARE,' J. D. HORD,' AND
Departments of Chemistry, 'Nuurology, PPathology. and "Sanders
Brown Research Center on Aging, University of Kentucky, Lexington,

C. M. THOMPSON'
KY 40506.

ABSTRACT

Although the etiology and pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease,
Pick's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis are still unknown, it
has been suggested that perturbations u! element metabolism may
play a role. Even if not causative factors, these imbalances may prove
to be markers that could aid in diagnosis. We have emploved a *
quential neutron activation analysis (NAA) procedure to determine
elemental concentrations in brain, hair, fingernails, blood, and cere-
brospinal fuid (CSF) of these patients and age-matched controls
Samples are first irradiated with accelerator-produced 14-MeV neu-
trons for determination of nitrogen and phosphorus, then with reac-
tor thermal neutrons for the instrumental determination of 16-18 mi-
nor and trace elements, and, finally, reactor-irradiated again,
followed by a rapid radiochemical separation procedure (RNAA) to
determine four additional elements. Major advantages of NAA are:
(1) its simultaneous multielement capability; (2) the relative treedom
from reagent and laboratory contamination; (3) the absence of major
matrix effects; and (4) an adequate sensitivity for most elements of in-
terest. Ranges of concentrations by VVNI and RNAA in selected con-
trol tissues and interelement correlations in control brain are pre-
sented to illustrate results obtained by the procedure. Longitudinal
studies of tissues from Alzheimer's disease (AD) and amyotrophic lat-
"Author to whom all correspondence and reprint requests should be addressed

eral sclerosis (ALS) patients are still in progress.

Biological Trace Element Rescarch

19

Vol. 13 1987