Mutations in signal transduction pathways

and inherited diseases
Paolo Sassone-Corsi and Emiliana Borrelli

NOTICE: THIS
MATERIAL MAY BE
PROTECTED LY
COPYRIGHT LAW
TILL 17 US CODF

CNRS-INSERM, Strasbourg France

Intracellular signal transduction pathways have central roles .n processes
such as growth, differentiation, neurotransmission and development. The
aberrant expression of components of various signal transduction pathways
has profound consequences for cellular functions Recent findings indicate
that kuew cases of neoplasia and inherited diseases have, at their roots,
mutations is key steps of signalling pathways.
Current Opinion in Genetics and Development 1992, 2:455-458

Introduction

Troubles in the nucleus

A prerequisite for normal 2 growth and differentiation In the nucleus, many transcription factors such as AP-1
spond appropriately oI signals sent both from other cells tfied as the final targets of signal transduction pathways.
and from their environment. The plasma membrane is Some of them are constiruted by oncoproteins, like Fos
the extemal interface of the cell that bears many elements and Jun for AP-1 [7-), and Rel for NF-XB (11). Yet other
required for the primary analysis of such signals. Among oncogenic products have been found to have important
interact specifically with a variety of compounds. Binding of Myc, Myb and ErbA (12-). Correct transcription initia-
trol of gene expression By altering the spectrum of genes the regulatory activity of nuclear oncoproteins have been
a given stimulus. Aberrations in this process can lead to and as such could be considered as transcriptional anti

is that each cell must be able to receive, interpret and é
these elements are membrane receptors that are able to
of a ligand to its receptor initiates a cascade of events that
modulate a variety of cellular functions including the con-
expressed, the cell appropriately adapts its physiology to
deregulated cell proliferation and ultimately tumourige
nesis. Two major signal transduction pathways, which
use cyclic adenosine monophosphate (CAMP) and dia-
cylglycerol (DAG) as secondary messengers, exist (1,23).
Each pathway is characterized by its specific protein ki-
protein kinase V: (PKA) and protein kinase C (PKC),
identified to date [4). A myriad of interactions between
membrane receptors and cytoplasmic and nuclear com-
expression [5-]. Significantly, oncogenic products OC
Adno pivotal positions in all the pathways of intracellular
signalling (6-). graphically demonstrating that aberrations
the links between defective signal transduction and dis-
that represent paradigms of this phenomenon.

(7-), NF-XB (8), CREM (-6) and SRF (10) have been iden-
functions at the level of gene regulation, as in the cases
tion relies upon cooperation between these various fac-
tors (13-). In "uogipp proteins that negatively modulate
found to respond to various signalling systems (14,,15),
A Supgns example of how inherited diseases and neo-
plasia can be associated with a specific transcription fac-
tor defect concerns the disease Wilm's tumour (16-f. In
the "vsn among children under 16 years of there
are 350 new cases of Wilms' tumour diagnosed every
tumour include aniridia, hemihypertrophy, malformation
of the genitalia and neurofibromatosis (NF). The mode
etrance (17). In the past, this kind of neoplasia has been
explained by a 'rwo-hit' mutation model, in which the
loss of a functional gene product resulted from muta-
suppressor gene and encodes a nuclear protein that in-
of a zinc finger-contaiiing domain (16-). The Wilms

oncogenes.

nase,

age,

respectively, although a large number of kinases has been year. Congenital abnormalities associated with Wilms'
ponents are responsible for the fine modulation of gene of inheritance is autosomal dominant with variable pen-
in transducing systems can have dramatic consequences toon at homologous loci. Recently the wtl gene, which
for cellular physiology and metabolism The past year has is located at the Wilms' tumour locus (11p13), has been
8 many important advances in our understanding of cloned and characterized. It is postulated to be a tumour
ease. In this review we will focus on some key examples teracts with specific DNA promoter elements by means

Abbreviations

CAMP cyclic adenosine monophosphate; CF- cystic fibrosis: CFTR o transmembrane regulator,
responsive elements: DAG- diacylglycerol; GAP GTPase-activating protein; G-protein CTP-binding protein;
NF neurofibromatosis; PKA protein kinase A PKC- -rotein kinase C WT-Wilms tumour.

CRE

Current Biology ut ISSN 0959-437X

455

2031367951