BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
Area stores
SAT
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For the Deily Camera nors. kids. ka
referring to the Increased enforce- penalyy lur selling tobacco to. a ml- tried to buy ule cigarelles. The
ment.
Boulder police stung 11 busl-. Store clerks unlucky enoueb. OF nesses this week during 8 crack. get'caught were issueda summong down on selling cigarettes 6t mi to appoar "t court. The maximum The sting. conducted on the eve -ooris R 00zS. fine of. the American Cancer Soclety's The Suna involved two tcams. Oreat American Smokeout, was In- Each included ut uniformed 'omcer tended to educate clerks that it's il- a piain clothes onicer. and two legal to sell tobacco products to Fairview High School sirts, who Police targeted gas stations, con: girls" parenis signed a waiver al- vènience, drug, grocery and dis- lowing themtotakk part thc. op: 1aw-as neverBeen enforced, said The Juvenlles were told not to Jopinog Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "We're letting the stores know had t show identification.
>
'count slores. Until recently, the eratlon. this ic going t happen," ehc said,
the cigarettes. and, if asked, they (Sce BOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors S At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry 28uh SL, one of the girts asked when she was isste the cashier for a pack of Mart mons. ous gaid ohe 9iM stur boro Lights. Offccr Rob Hauke- jue and couldn't atord tne ness, 5, plain clothes, po01s in "oorr costs. HAukeness poin "01 "iineheehind her to witnese thç contore Rer, saying she could- A placard near the cash regis- the Distriet Attorney to do tros o ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity acrvice Instradof paying clerk asked tn see some identifi The clerks, not the store oWI: cation. The buyer produced ler ert or manugers, have to pay the.: she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it a usiund cd at the license, sct it down on stores or clerks," she said. "Al-: the counter, and sold her the though, when you scc clerks cry: Afier they lef, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted -5I stepped dn and identified him sloros and clerks # ailbur four eelf 03 a police officer. Manka received summonses. came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wock's operation was the. rra1M. I see them ask for an year. Tha first sting, conducted. E I think they're going to 2 in September, targeted 16 stores: esnt the cale," Haukeness sald. und $7 clerks received sum-
(From Page 1C)
The clerk at Colony Market,
um-
transaction.
prububly work out a deal. with-
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, driver's license, which showed court coste.
cigarettes. summons.
ing, you might think otherwise. secund tobacco sale stine S19T
"But they never do."
monses.
