Cercinogenevis vul 15 MI 13 re a 2725 1924 arcinogens met chemopreventive agents
uung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke benzo(a)pyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
osan
and
C3 420
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Heslth Foundarion, Valhalla, NY 10595. USA by d-tmethylnitroaaminon
models examined O date (2). BaP in a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke "(1) We have chosen the A/J mouse because previous
The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer In smokers. Lung tumor induction is A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantined and their progression to and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of (emale A/J mice CI evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastric gavage (i-g-) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of intraperitoneal injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and - dimehhybeeziilaaihrreee (9.10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the AIJ mouse OI evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The igg. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4.1 1,12). Results obtained with the A/J mouse can be replicated because i: avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems. For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injection site and associated mortality A dose - response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung tumorr induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g- administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 rat (11,13). mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect to tobacco of 24 umol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important Comparisons of NNK and RaP given Individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (11. when giv en by the i.g. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality, before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP. The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 umol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the mode! should be relatively rapid and subdoses igg, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we examined tumor yields obtained dosing. This reginen induced 10.5 24.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethyt isothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure YI This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation. reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP. efficncy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. Is purity was established la HPLC as >997. BaP (93% purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Heaith Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). Taey were could be useu to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirt containing s% cor oil. as prev viously 2 play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups of 15 as sammarized is Table I. At age 7 weeks. cach mouse was kers: (methylnitrosaamino 3-pyridyl)- 1-butanone (NNK") treated b intrppritonnaal (ip. injection or by lntragasrii gavage (i)) with and benzo(alpyrene (BaP) e NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical ie 0. mi cononseed oil. NNK and BaP were boi carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung is all rodent dissolved in the 0 ml used for treatment. Injections and gavages were carri Abbrevlations: NNK. 4-(methyl Initrosamino) Pyridy! -butunane: individuat dese was one-eighth of the rotal. Equimolar doses of NNK a ar Ba?. benzololpyrene: PEITC, phenethyl iscthiocya anale: BIIC, benzyl Bar were used in most of the combination groups, breause the amounts of
ridyl)- --butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined
which these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the that Bal was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
Mos: previous studies in the A/I mouse have examined We sought 0 develop a model which could be used to
5.9 # 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely this study provide a convenient model for assessing the inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
NNK was synthesized in the American Health Foundadion Organic Synchesis BITC 5861 purity) and PEITC (93% (Aund were obtained from the Aldrich Chemical Company (Milwaukee. wij. Cottonseed oll was purchased from Fermle AJ mice, age 5 weeks. were obtained from The Jackson Kaoveroge (Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the The desiga of the bioassay is illustrated in Figure 1. The mice were divided out for 8 consecutive wecks. The toral doses are given st Tuble 1 Rad NNK and total carcinogenie polycyelic hydrocarbons in sobacco smoke are
Sigma Chemical Co. (S1 Louis, MO). described (4).
Introduction to
agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought
isorhips raee "d intriperitoncll, : introgadrie gavage.
o Oxford Unvenity Press
2721
