WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRIBUNE
D. 25,605
S. 49,326
WACO METROPOLITAN AREA
MAR 9 1963

F.C Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard-- -Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Cemmunications Commission frona going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it
does not scem right or logical that one medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer while
newspapers, magazines, billboards and e ounter
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expectod to review the FCC propnsal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
Juno 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC said it is proposing to refuse Jicenses
to broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising
because of evidence that Bugguus is injurioun to hcalth
and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public
intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals to do
as they please s0 long as thcy doa't harm another.
Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that if you don't mention something. maybe de won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Hlorida Democret, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com-
merce Commiitcc,, snid in reference to the proposed
FCC rulc that the Kouatu had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. le said he doubts that FCC has
any right to tell an advertiser what he could not
say in his ndvertisements. Rogers said Congress will
take a close Icok at the whole question of regulations
on television and radio advertising content, not ouly
as 01 the Federal Communications Commisssion but
in regard to Federal Trade Commissioo practices as
Thhe stakes involved extend beyond the busincss
of broadcasting. They 03 to the heart of whe:her
government bureaus should be allowed to 03 beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Health.

hurt you and will disappear.

well.
:

tho limits of due proccss and the law,