HKW2223022
Life Seiences Vol. 15. PP: 1291-1300 Printed in the E
Perganon Press
: ETAROLIS or RENm (A)PYRENE BY KICROSONES FRON TISRUES b PRPOAAMTT AR FITAL HAMITERE Irene T. Mang, Ronald E. Rasmunsen, and T. Timothy Crocker Cancer Research Institute, Unfveraity of California, : Prancieco. and Depart- -mn of Cormanity ard Invronmental Medieine, Univereity of California, Irvine". (Received in final form 26 August 1974) Sumary Pretreatment of hansters with benzo talpyrene (BaP) grestly incressed the in vitre metabolian of hAr by lung alerosonns from prognant he stare, and hed I effect on the metabolie of Bap by itver aiere- somos. The produetion of various metaholites of Rap by lung niere- sonos w increaned 9 different extenta: 3-hydrery-BaP (3-CH-BAP i cne 2 the najor satabolites: the netabolic yielde of 9,10- dihydrodihttrony-Bar (9,10-dio1) and 7,8-diel vere Increased tore than thae of E 4,5-dio1. In the ehee of 1iver nierosomee, only the yielde of 9,10-diol and 7,8-diol vere incressed ovar the contrel levels, The presence of eyclohexene oxide in the incube tion mir- tures decresred the production of the diole. Dasal-eevel enryme activities in placental, fetal 1iver, and fetal akin mierosomes in metabolizire m vere very low, Pretreatment of pregmant hainterre with RaP indaced Rap-metabolizing entymes 5 fetal tierue 2-3 foid. Benso (a)pyrene (Da ie . carcinogen and anvirommental contaninant that in fere in coal tar, nineral efl, car exhaurt, toharee snoke, -okee foode, ett. (1). In vitro stadies shoved that 2 tabolie activation of a ie required for Ste interaction vith proteins and nuclete aetde (2,3). Earller studies with rat 1iver preperations 14,5) and harater 1iver micresome (6,7) sheued that Bar le metahelised mainly 8 phenolie and dinydrodihytroxy (diel) derivatives, and 9 quinones which -re ensymatie or air oxidation producte ot enstable phenolie netabolitas (4,51 a vell as some untdentiried a polar metabel ites, the metabolien et Rat has generally heen resmreed by the production of 3-hydroxy- Bar (3-OR-MAP) whirh Je aften one of the major metalolites i vitro (3). 3-0H- nap ie toxie te euitured celle (9), hut it shovs very 1setle interactin vi th DIA in vitro (61 end has not been shown 3 be carcinomenic. On the ather [ K-regton eporides ef related polyeyelie aronatie hylrocartons (PAM)bin to cell-
1291
