HKB2228112
SAST BARBAR 2
HEESE 5

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO

le : 2

F 11 H -1
ISPAKIMI / : PAUR
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willian H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Rescarch rourdation
715 Kuir Lands Vista Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. fishean:
and Salk.

Ne are 1ooking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolia rescarch cormunity. In particular, the activities of the la Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzynes
should fit in well with ongoing activities noi only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnrent of a focal center for rcsearch proorams on oncodevelopmental
prublems is particularly ieely. It will be 0! grat potential importance for
pulling tcgetter work by a nimber of laboratories directed toward isolation,
characteriztaion and doterrination of the significance of hurin oncodevelopmiettal
antigens such as alphafetoprotein and carcinuxsbryoni antigens.
One of the goals of the work in our laborator is to determine the relationship
of increased serua concentrations of ArP to preralignant lesions or carcinogen
exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systors clearly derion-
strate tnet anirals exposed to hepatocarcinogens have eleva ated serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developrant of melignant tumers. It is hoped that systeretic
study of husan scra frut differert aources vill determing if seru AFr conc.n-
In addition, the role of envirunmental factors such as hormonal influences on
the production of oncodevelojmmett. gene pr--k can be further explored in
different sy: tems Such data irplies that (ke prod:ue tion of oha ocave elopmental
gene product, by turor cells is net a fixed property of a given tumor but is
Hr look fon:ard to working with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the important subjert of oncodeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoger exposure

subject to environmental controls.

express ion.
Best regards,
Stewart Sell, N.D.
Professor
SS/nb