SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.
complainss associared with the "sick building syndrome

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

t al. (1967) investigared the frequency of complaints in 43
questionnaire. The symproms were more commos . baild

In a cross-sectional invesnganion in & building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validased
were measured on e linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and
Ar the: same time, the micro-environment (environmenial humidification. irrespective of the abe of the buildings. A
characteristics in the breaching zone rather chan area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air
samples) a characierized by measuring temper 'Am quality parameters was not described. Skov et al. (L961) ex-
relarive humidiry, respirable suspended perticulases, car. amined indoor air quality symptoms is 14 modern 1
bon dioride, noise level, lighaing inuensiry, relacive kar town halls and 1 older control buildings. A I of 1
midiry, and airflow. No relarionship a seen berween i was related 0I a "feecing" factor (carpets, upholserry.
che degree of sympioms and age, educarion, or duration and horirontal surfaces) . & the "macro-moleculer f
of employment at the building or time spent in she build- nent" of dust. They abo demonstrated a relationship between
hn on a daily basis. Starisrically, complaines werr the number of houns uads photocopying and using carbonles
significandly more frequent among Supoour men. Envi- ldoo paper and tbe level of complaints. Other studies have
rommental characteristics associased 1 che increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985)
complaint levels .s this group included decreased airflow and prychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute
models, chere a 5 association berween respire nu- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome b i
pended particulases and the levels of boch mucous 6 suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertoon et
brane and rystemic complaints. Satisfaction 1 * F (1985) were unable to demonstrate 5 measurable dif.
thermal environment e predicted by perceprion of dreft ferences in the concentrations of environmental poluttatts
R nor clearty contribuse to she degree of rymptoms, berween rooms is a mechanically and a naturally veutileted
I regression models PIP 4 t compl $ building. They srudied the rooms with the f
were nor independent of chermal parameters. : de I and used area samples. a et al. (1987) did compl I
insensiry & also associated 1 complaints. I strate a relationship between symptoms and both area -
mudies of R 1 building syndrome should ezamine ples Suumeeuu dust and a "macro-molecular" fraction, 1

velociry and increased levelsof respirable nuspende par to indoor air quality complaints.

diculates and dry-bulb "amuuuduur 5 rresion

Several studies have attempted to identify the actual

-

I exposures simultaneously and 1 prycho o area samples.

social meanures 9 idenaify predictors of I -s

Area samples is buildings may Do be representative of
the exposures in different points in I rooms. Physical
and sbelving may induence sir currents. Radiam heat may

indoor spaces.
INTRODUCTION

characteristics such : windows and

partitions, computens,

Complaints sermed the E building syndrome" bave lead 0I uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, most t
led os numerous investigations in tbe last 15 years. They a hutants resuk from point sources, os they & be diluted a a
thought to occur primarily is newty constructed otiice 1 subject .n farther removed from tbe source. A micro 4
inp and, at least in the past, were thought to be I to vironment around desks and I cubicles may have very
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem, a different exposure characteristics thao tbe macro-enviroo-
1 variety of causes have been identibed .s specife settings ment of a building. In addition. all applied occupational and
inctuding inadeouate temperature and relative bumidiry coo- environmental bealth research that attempes to relate dose to
trol, noise, I vibration. volatile organic compounds beakh effects suflers from the problem that dose i generally
and formaldehyde. microorganisms, environmental sobecco measured at several points in time Y then extrapolated to
smoke, pesticides, dust. entrainment of vehicle exhaost or allow developmemt of exposure classifications over decades
1 I contaminated air and boiler I fbers relcased € most heakh eflects are measured : . single resuk of
from duct linings and otfice machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sampling
A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegnn where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom
tt a 1984) pomslins that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to bour. 1 a stratep most fail,
(Robertson e al. 1985) was unable to identify diflerences ie attempted 9 characterize air-qualiry parameters .s the micro
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulbb temperature (semper- eavironment and stt these characteristics 9 relation to the
ature), relative humidity. air velocity, formaidebyde. or 8 level of individual complaints at a piven point .s I This
itive or nerative ions between several rooms i a building report presents results of a crossssctiional investigation of a
with natural and a building with mechanical ventilation. problem building using a sel--admnniseered, linear f
where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
# I a Amiua Profesor of Medicine and ol laduscrial and Environmental Heakh Sciences at the Univerury of
of Medicine Publc Heahh. e & . Director, Environmental Heakh and Salery. Camepe-Meelon Univeruty, Pirtsburgh. PA.

(Kreiss and Hodpon 1984; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986).
marily to mechanical ventilation. The same dnod of authors

results .n greater than the difference in average samples, 8
No investigations in the peer-reviewed litersture I

School
Pebbrrg

and