New! Improved! Dangerous?
4RAI More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium, Experts Fear Taxic Reactions
a LArasee LANUNER -rmt The Tushintnn Rat hur
much n akium then :o lunt of ti a real enntalant 300 in 400 miriram nf de Or course say Purdur's Werver, fur pen ple niw setiing -ely 201 in 400 milleprams ofcaccuurs daily, the coukt H K ue Ad. Awl a lt et people cereal do gt ouly Dor 1 Wood omrurn " yoe don arrik mii, your ealrium eoi umptio le alumt 300 lo 400 milig mid a : hr Rays That's rule of thumb people H vouk Wih the cocption oflicns ncw uudu de rescarcbere agree that i's safet act tre nat uume mB: - thar P 600 milligraam ealrimm daily, regardees a variations df - erption I Count up, M v -AY Mal ser 1 rrem snig - AN Wodd ayr taa str within dhr Ine 4 partimuur ae a Nou a :et de with molirr trrine es ues are endei iu and a teengge son who atreade gris plenty a seer dint of the a à & for he a might Iey c kur fur titie e nu E 4 cinelooriliied 1i,, cere . and an a hut bo guanle -ilk -r ent 1 - at aller forellll . actire ur ha coupl bowt a esres a an afters chost uu could cioll be getnn thousadds ot - Rerams sorakh Waod and ether remeerchers ale agree daat in beat 60 Ret youreakiim fre arani etr of foodd rather them c00 or two heavils furtifed OEKK and Uut ot kas -our of sbuudd come frurr u and othrr dainy podd- - "Iiistriiglyy Weuver exphuu, peo ple à have kes deficient in eaciimm hun lern ler in A - raolaviin. vitnmir y and vitamin DE a madileerr in milk. "Deiry va . kdr of one top shupplng kr
A Calcium-Fortifiee Day 3/4 c Total pered 1: cup caccu dartitedd 1ue me pe a ke fertifed Mmte Mald erange ho LUNCH 1 - ee han ot dwies chovar Wander Engl - d Natt-cain bar 3ag - chicke breast tmp APPR Semad Corrrry Creck Pin Cakum - baked potatn, tappes wit -y Shedds Seread Courtry Rar B Galokm h a - - po e Oreer's Calelum Ro vanilis ie cream a 2 ue la
à eaccimm recommendation frr teenages ls DOE'1 melligamms aheits to ag gn
min ral 2,500 - 000' 110 350 90 know 300 120 a4 272 10/ 1S0 130 200 140 3 142 - 26 11 22 2212 10 50 162 GOO 2t0 3.304 407 a
of foereal with mi8 anda das 1.000 milligamss - adulss Slelus, 1.200 millimamss Ret with the dorens ef a erange hnor for herak 34 A enk clmmfeorriiiee foods on the market today, i ease to consinue -er dem * followed ky a sac ler : the milligram à 'fllrable Upper Inteke Level st ty de Natkmal Acalrrg at lote afterm - M dimer, some heeoor chirk Selenres - on diet of enly vor' ralurien Chrck rut the Adouinn m -
achtime amer adcheeee 1 a and a conple ef siegesalion topped with morgainnn, sellwwed as a dol multivits BREAKFAST min/mineral pili frr nutritional à -arance. x while watching AL in the evening a lalfeup (olay, a eap) A ke creup Sound -etty reamons aiee, ridur Actually, depending on the tranks daxite, juca day pae cuald net Et Ham-and chems smowick bween 3,000 and 3.000 miliigamns Es cald a + gnificantly suree the tbe "Roerralle Upper latale Level et 2,500 milliganss mt ly the the National Acndemy ef Scemees # NOONSIL: SNACK (NAS). many Roode are now fortifint with akcium thtt - has beeome mace a de to ao - the safety limit. Ant the tux mo E DINNER mition reseedeerr comeernel "An whh anything 1 car be a 1/2 oap hrnccll tnpped with pruhlem, sag Richard o, chict of the Mineral F Nioamilabiiity lekomttry ar the iteman Nutrition Research Center al Tuts University in Boston. "The wiadow betwecn rytiint letade - the upper link 4e relr. theely met - Indeed, the teteuuaee intale EVENING SNACK penyu ty the NASH 1,000 to 1,31 0 mil Tigrams day, depending on sg or ntr bwice dest marietod i Gont andSelreny that "grno and you've reachod the safety oclinng Hur marg other estrient,, you'd TOTAL Aave M increae the el degmse intake may amrr Ixforr maching ridy kyels Whrt can happes a you take in toe marh caciius owr Giee i sus there have been "on Ur corerr of 30 caR reports ofcal cuun todiity, which can maeiditt k as a No a, perteps kee m 4 ther fmetion.
- a Bue Metaboliees 1.b at FURL this parkage of nutrente si autes * a
thom. diminesss end wol thuue cal iffaaion Other - the calcium dortiled foode ag She alw queatiine the LON mil -e a - Hadee mere ammee ir yorrre e The Midmnn made d ane three, "might br are a ressonable eption. a (avce the cono - Nimm of cakclum -rw - te evr sev 24 to aet rkhmmm bet m nre reriiiyy de a purt teallly winembir. he remmkk,, amd e furtificttion," sirs Robert Heury. e in offical ecrel, VLL an I level ether ubstanres fore endrimm for de Then, tou lepercakeeeal as toxicly ef Oruh And unlie Wind,, he's not partie N an rendentted keve. probably higher Irwin Rosenberg director of the Nutri the waaard an cadee, con - ou velr adnne utarly concerned about anyoe à e deg owr dar man odker cadcuum int uile food, tim Jbrm are Crster at Tul, laperticul dure drm furmatin,, parties darbr R people wbe bount "Thrre are lota R very 2 thy people Wemer ha a reservar foos ton, be mpveened thet a d witha N4d core mnrii tave had astere 1 the port Too 1 mach cal wbe en sam lots mnre than ithel lied he - - w the quirka in the tolyy e woydanng tim ofa singte nutri a will bes people into an can sbo roduce s urptin < two other daims Some poralation who depend on n calciem, - te will abrorb more gaccium i Bieklog the NU mouribing the m lees adr e uttalrinerrae trou and rir ther hattrr 4 largdly ML din diet, yach an co-berds :6 yoa hare divited a-oe thrunghont the dag quatel Fom don't g ot the hekk of wend. wluch i pecmean for wound bralis kg and 3 Alrica and hel Lapps he lerd ceindeer h wy Thot's wiy poope who the 000 l prudcut dictary cholces becnuse you v pri a fer wetloningt A the ismune gie sorther S Jinn : "ypiicalyy et 4,000 millipanees' worth 2 eacium wppleweents pided - teo ln - wils fartified Fodd hr While sech prnblems bave bees mare unta abuut which food the nineral ondit to 2 dodd del hecorillaliiiy tesling ke Total's your bones completely preterted just be -ww re auerruarieet sbeives rabes the Hur imtance, Drer yer is auw ted murket I thet the enkeimm in tle verell -l aee denily is * etrenghened le vxrrcie,," h tmme e hri hrmoming mire commen. ing ler E thet contaion 300 miligrans sorbed a welas ther encckru immlk Jor -ys "y M weakrnnd in liedr vitamin Nit Uhit Wood thinks ealcium-forrilied of (alcimm per halfeup inttead nf d typiral every sAnr milirmme R ralcimm consmmn D. which in netesaary ES calcium absorp foodsarre bad thing T think they a pood 100 milligrar wh pue Hesney - -n ris a (the amount le op ef mik), the body ab din and pertaps by too much sodjam par dea," be 4 ya "Avcrn I are much RE mixed focinn on tbe urek faxd situr morbs 100 miliig: am or roughly 30 prrcent cadcine. Buth -abnk comy w du fue thr 2 a 4 u 20 te 20 ymrr etf averg Adle Crnele Venves oncchmm lnventiga Che abrorptin ratr poe domn. Ir your have A other werda, as Hone pals a. 14 only abutt 700 millig um et ok clem a dag. tor at Pardue Univernily in Weat Laiayette Chree to ker eups a -iik in one sitinng um h onb ene part of the pur ar F he whrm rhyy shoukl K cortriingg 1,000 mil d Td bate to aee peo a w thecrcuse et I euntains aldrrl 00ert milligrams cuas you ve lar a hmd et Total doesn Teru And wunen 65 1 older, wbo ing a aet cho - ealcium leeet lots dwialies to 15 pereent dout 130 E -on 2 shond he geiiing 1.000 mitiigaame, are sak of A and alriees Then yourre solving oee Bigram,, a's the ane wih the Total Since lng ln only abuut L Uet mmuun i0 2 sim prbleem while making anosher one Ipree onn arrvine mpplics 1,00 mimmaaa. yem Euting Richr cvlum ai Lawrener iootr - on th order of PARRO yt . mil Brr Duw Hnghe, chief of the Cale in othr - unla a met nhe bing teriibly - in fralth & Nill
um researcher at Creighton Universitt i R fortification, xhe a N meenis a certainiy 1
Wi had - stady A pott emmonauue wom te 0002 milloguns ef alll am pir day pue dilyy arr anvieet te -allr their two 300 - m. Wued reprrts High-eaccim d:tt re hew "absolutely so problems," le says millieam pille et diffrrnt naral,
Jemen Hlert, a mineral researcher at Pur
dured xine malece
Prr he and others do have - suopeesseu Heancy demmtrrtte the point when he das priatscnt, tun thet ymu don' rven bee
- à pkehhura A cal: clun-lortitied Reum added to, ewdr loem due see recommemlaiiess Toe - Br dory for -en althongh the thre
prodaers General M.ss. On une hand, hr cauee - rr griting L e edddum. "Be - Tut a de ckdimm U - I mr - - mineral from the Ioaly via the urinc. - . t -eb I 100 et thrm, Heane -or Lindner R a . vtiry Nor thr 7htte
al the hore
of obenityl I
