page - Pa.
HEHINONI Philadelphia, Pa. C March 27, 64
INQUIRER Philadelphia, March 26, 1964
2 Cancer Types Rare In Nuns, Study Shows PALM BEACH SHORES, Fla., March 26.-An extensive Duns bas shed light on some stubborn problems of medical research, it was reported SATT 6 YEARS LONGER The survey, conducted with that the average age of death "generous collaboration" of was 77.5 years, about six years chureh authorities, has enlisted: higher thaa for American wom- the cooperation of more than) ea is general. 116,000 auns in 262 religious Dr. Nix said the nuns "get Some preliminary results numbers as other women, but based on pilot studies and a por. they seem to get them or years tion o tbe main survey in 1963 later than the average woman." vere revealed here at - h e There was a strikingly low sixth annual American Cancer incidence of cervical eancer, Society Science Writers' Semi- which Dr. Nix attributed to is an unusual type of en, although it ean now be activity for the nans," said detected early enough with the Dr. James T: Nix, of New so-called "Pap smear" test Orleans, director of the study. that *t can be treated effective- so "Bat they cooperated because ly. they- feit the knowledge as im- portant, and that it was their only one daty t ali their sisters and to all humanity." . The survey's primary target a fairly high incidence of a is pia down some of the t cancer. lationships of bealth to celibacy, "The nuns realized that abstinence from alcobol emoking and other environmen- er statistical value and 5 faciors. One of the striking findings of death information for the cal- the pilot stady : that -enbs endar year 1964," Dr. Nix said. mous cell lung eancer- the chielly eaused by smoking. : being processed in the big which makes up the great computers of the Tulane Univer- majority of all lung eancer sity Biomedical Computing Cen- cases today-occurs only rarely ter. They promise valuable in- among the nuns. Dr. Nix added that the : babits of living on health. uleers.
Higher Death Rate
Males Is
By GARY BROOTEN Of The Inquirer Staff Buour
Among
survey of causes of death Thursday. the communities.
America's Roman The most striking finding: beart attacks a about the same
Attributed to
Catholie
Smoking of all deaths for that -a significant fact in itself.
Heavy By GARY BROOTEN Of The PALM Inquirer Staff
age group
March BEACH 25.-A leuding SHOR RE.. Fla.. But by comparing the 69,000 ex- statistician said Wednesday bealth that cess smokers' deaths with the much of tbe long accepted dif- 153.700 excess death. among all ference in death rates between men. the statisticians eame to sexes may be attributable to the conclusion that 14.8 percent differences in eigaret smoking. of these excess deaths among not fundamental sex differences. males could be blamed on Furthermore. said Dr. Morton smokinz. L. Levin, evidence now indi- Previously, L be differences cates that eigarets can be (which are usually expressed blamed for "a minimum" of 100,000 excess a - th: S 5 as a Jonger life expectancy for America every year. Excess deaths can loosely as early deaths. be defined In differences between men and smoking studies. they are calcu- women. lated by comparing deaths among smokers at level with deaths each age Dr. Levin said. expected from general life expectancy tables. He sand t.e fact thal the Dr. Levin. chief of epidemi- Su r ge o n General's ology at the Roswell Park Committee Memorial Institute in N. his Y., made remarks at the excess deaths sixth annual American Society Science Writers' Semi par bere. He that nearly 45 percent of thi can Canierr the hizher male death rate can br attributed to smoking. In the 25-to-64-year typical year (1960). smokers. These men presum- ably would not have died that year had they not been heavy smokers. The excess deaths amon: smokers constituted 20 percent
nar. DUTY TO HUMANITY "This
celibacy and good hygiene. Can- cer of the cervix :, a common disease. among American wom-
women) had been attributed loosely to biological and other "It is important to remember that other factors are at work," Advisory report on smokin; Butfalo, did not give a figure for tota: due 01 xmokin: Cancer "underscores the magnitude el this publie health problem." Dr. Levio reported on the offered figures indicatin; first 300 patients who had gune institute's Ameri Society-3ponsored rescarch project on smokers The reasoning runs like this: withdrawal clinics, but gave no statisties on how many had 155,700 more men than women He said preliminary results died in Amertca in a given indicate that an antismoking compound, Lobeline, h . 1 a s In the same year. there were smokers quit. but only while 69.800 excess deaths among male they are taking it.
the nuns, Among Dr. Nix found case-in a 93-year-old sister. On the other hand, there was breast a or larger series would be of great- have already started collection of nun new data pour in, they formation on the influence of
As the type
through age group. quit smoking.
liiioss communities' no-smoking rules seem a likely reason for 1 strikingly low incidence of bleeding or perforating peptie Preliminary resalts from the main study were based 8 575 of the 1116 deaths reported in the communities last year.
1005151230
