True-ra Ine Questlons on the Chenistry and j6186166844ud0454s, Odor end Flavor la H F Sone nodern workers suggest that nccurate mensurenent of vibratlona! frequency (in the far infrared, for exemple) of an unknown odorant wili permit prediction of its quality and intenslty. No elenente substance, not even halides or ozone hos any odor; Instead they react with the nucose forning new products which are smelled; bur A Sone odorants heve steric or vibrational propertles which force the concluslon that they are odor less when they are not. 11. TF Present evldence strongly suggests thot different perts of the olfactory receptor ares, Ilke the retina In the eye, are quailty-specific. T Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor No one yet has a fire clue as to the criticol relation between the molecule and the receptor which permits en odor perception. The greater the secretion rate of mucous or selive, the higher their pH, and both pi and temperature influence 2 quality of sensation in the 111. H The ideat Instrumental detector 2 ld respond to odors in the sene quantitative range as does an onimat or human subject. 1 - Such an Ideat detector hes not been developed. I-man observers with head In fixed position cen by virtue of the two Indopondent nostrils easily discern stereo snall effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier his odoront is ot the right or lefr hand, much : one uses nis two ears in locating the source of à sound. For certal In nusk-like coepounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger a humon olfactory response v. - Adeptation to one olfactory qunlity does not significantly reduce sensitivity to any of thr dissiei lar quality, but does reduce sensi- fivity to all sinllor quelities. - By enploying a similerities nethod of co-pering qualities, one con now obtain Identity and degrees of difference without recourse to troble- vi, 1 Hunger lowers thresholds stightly 2 some food quallties but not for Ir S! now possible to identify the Intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull simply by expert examination of the electrophysloiogiccl record taken fron approprlate odor or taste neurons. Electrical stimulation of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkaline" quality. Direct electricol stimulatlon of the olfactory sense hes never yer been successfully accompilshed. VII. 1 Although total anosela is rare In humans and ageusio even rarer, there is evidence that In analogy to color vision deficiences, some people are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while hoving normal sensitivity to others. Topical anesthetics appiled to the tongue show that different quelities Certain endocrine disease entitles make It possible for some people quire sensitively to "snell" such "odor less" substances es sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to nornat by manipuletion of endocrine levels. Premenopausa wonon at the fime of ovulation fInd certain odors extrenely disegreeab le while at other fimes In the menstrunl cycle these seme odors
sore elements possess taste.
surface ln order to be snelled,
chenicn senses.
tv.
sone words. others.
of toste disappear at different rates.
they will judge quite pleasent.
ovi
