HERALD STATESMAN a 1.321 S. 41.500 NFW YCRK CIY 31 TROPOLITAN AREA
Smoking and health
start? do advertising ning of cigaret 87 cent vey, per reported or héard an anti-smoking Today, only 48 per cent en- counter this type of an- White nouncement. In meantime, magazines and newspapers portray
Knowing the
we
risks, why
ByJOANN UNDERCOFFLER You've come a long "Aem Baby! : the cigaret ad exults. "Baby" is seen as the American woman, svelte and smoking, making it in the marketplace right along with her smoking brothers. She has, indeed, come a long way. Way back when she didn't have the voté and l: was considered unla- dylike in the extreme to smoke, she didn'thave lung cancer either. Women today are falling victim to lung: cancer at a rate Dr. J. Wister Meigs çalls "epidemic" in the of the American: Medical lung cancer in group. tics?, Those habit-forming, are almost as popular with. womed today as they are tiion in lungs with men, and the medical most." that community agrees more than 80 per cent of used a fiter. cigaret It took cigaret smoking, the today they say there. 6s ou getting around it. Dr. Marc Berenzweig heads the public education committee Westches- of the ter Division of the Ameri- can Cancer Society. As a cancer specialist (oncolog- ist), he is deeply con- a cernéd.. TIMN 274642
"There is no question tion of this stuff is what Dr.
that the population of who women began sometime after World War to with the malignancies of smoking, 4 he observed. hee smokes. "There was a time when lung cancer was almost un- women. Smoking is the sin- in the rise of the The American Cancer Society's Cancer," has an easily-un- derstood explanation.
smoking Bèrenzweig is talking on telèvision. In a 1969 sur-
about. Ask any pathologist who has seen hundreds of A 1976 STUDY by Yan- as kelovich, Skelly and
II is beginning turn up lung specimens under a mi- having seen television the lung associated with croscope. Ask him whether spot In the past four weeks.
the smok-
heard of, in men as well for the American Cancer
gle most important factor Society's Task Force on To- ers as young, healthy, sexy, disease." bacco and Cancer brought, attractive and well swering the Most-Often- years between 1969 and colleagues regard these 'Asked Questions about Cig- 1976, the percentage of paradoxes with great con-
forth some disturbing dressed. and young women. In the from 22 to 27 per cent, a fig- ure adding dn to half mil-
publication, "An- trends among teenage girls 'rret Smoking and Lung teenage girl smokers grew cern. 'ATIVWHON- particles lion girls age 13 and up.
Dr. Berenzweing and his- "We're trying to figure to people out some way get he said. old subtle kind of psychological work.. I move that would think probably peer pres- do it best. sure would Thé Task Force report young women the op,, ment" and your. 'wnn thing" phenomenon. that smokers arè: hard fact and,
a
These are not girls to cut =t .'nn
Sept. 5 issue of the Journal inhaled with. the air we. Ismoking for status, the re- "They hear the same do Association. In the state of cous lining of the bronchial cially at ease, confident," good. There must be some
breathe fall onto the mu- port states; they. are- s0-: things and it doesn't any
Connecticut, he points out, tubes." it reads. "This lin- "very put together.
1975 figures show more ing acts like ue escalator, men in the 35-to-44 age cles -upward by: whip-
Although among young women have
smokers
women than
constantly rarrying parti-
the-
ping"action of small, hair- increased only slightly Otherwise 3 a pretty throat- smoke slows or stops the than a" pack a day) has. smoke thee "all-perva-
Why these grim statis- like structures called cilia, (from 34 to 36 per cent) in grim picture.' - jitters-quelling, minute. Inhaled cigaret- érs Famong them (more agers
which: normally move at the same period of time, impairs the cleansing ac-. 'cent, the report revealed.
CIGARETS, that's why. the ratë of 1,000 times a the number of heavy smok- pointe. OM? reasons teen- seratching little villains k action of the cilia and thus grown from 51 to 61 per sive sinoking environ-
that need it Anyône who has, ever
THE MYSTERY IS why Countering these with tbe Force report showed that actually in the minority
smoke at all. The Task
holder- they
lung cancer is the result-of (the > common joke is; both teenagers and young with emphasis on the im- about 30 years for re- pens to those little erystals They have been exposed thinking physical work searchers and physicians in the filter after only one to classroom lectures and being might the. possibly e to pin down blame, but pack of smokes. They be- films on the dangers of against searchers felt. cigaret, There is an 4
"Staying away. from ciga- women are well aware jo portance of independent come black with gunk, and smoking. The subject added appeal for. the young while the filter traps some comes up in news reports women contemplating it all.-A 20-year accumula- report states that the one pregnancy; children is
rets?") has seen what hap- the risks they are courting.
well- the health of important in- WE CONDUCTED an smokers among our. eol-
of this mess, it doesh't get constantly. The Task Force:
their
most dominant countervail- t them. ing force awareness of, anti-smoking television commercials has been
reduced because of formal survey of former the cutback in free match- leagues and found one com- ing time following the ban- 'mon element one way or
sharply
37703
