F
RAP

AMERICAN JOURNALOF
Public
Health

Editorial
Volume E Numberd
Alred I MD, MPH

May 1907 Established 1911

EDITOR Less Hazardous Smoking and the Pursult of Satisfaction
Cigarettes deliver drugs: al root smoking is drug taking. Sesenthe wurt has
confrmed nicotine as a powerfully reinforcing. psychoactive drug For the consum-
ASSISTANT EDITOR er. then; ubra-low-yicld cipareties raise, the simple issue of Jruk 'uttnnn u
I J. Rothman, DYPH adulieration. The unsatisfactoriness of ultra-low- yyelddigarenes n seen in the cie aeyy
of customers for these pruducts even i healih-conxoous Calforna As nuted by
Maron and Fortmann in this issue of the Journal, only per cent uf smukers in
EOITORIAL BOARD vonendddd based sample smuke cigareties in the ranggo6 0 lo 02 mp n o H*
Mary F. I DPPH 11987) : "tar Despit the publicay about discase nsks of smuking ind the widespread
Chaipersonn belief that uitra low yield cigarettes are kes hazardous. munt smukers wlll nut :
I 1 RN. D-PH 1198 the sireet for these cigareties, let algne walk the advenised mile
No doubr smokers have rouiineyymee wltra low yield cigarctees L a a
Joy o. Dryfoos: MA 119 routinely have rejecied ihem as Sundumrsuu A mg a 0 - mg nec a tuns
Manin v I no 11988 delivers ahau 80 per sent diluting air in each puf taken 5s offiral smuk a me tere
Frederick C. Green. MD (1988 Those smokers who karn R incks of compensatory smuking are mure hkely lu
Mary Grcc Kovar. DrPH. M3 1198 persist in smoking these ciparetee than are those smukers who Jo not Jev - chup
I I MD. MPH (190 satisfaciory compensation lechniques For ultra low -yel ciparetes. the muin
smoking lechniques are blokking the deluting me vents un hiters wth.hps ur Anger
I D Rogers, MD MPH 119 taking larger pufls E as Maron and Forimann' remun S semply smoking mure
Zena I MA MR 11989 cigarenes per day. A smoker self-selecioon bass icompensators rem. un nin
Ferundo M Trevine. PDD, MPH (1987) compensators kave) may cause much of the discouraging panirrn lound in -
Experimenuel Evddene 1 Recent experments shuw . more encouragng picture
Joe I Wny, MD. MPH 1198 of whar might be Baned from the wndespread us uf ultra low yield cugaretes by
amokers who refuse to quit Surpous West, ei : randumiy assagned 14 mukc lu
remain wihh their own brand (average 1. ms micotne. 14 2 mg € Jand 12 smukers
STAFT lo switch te ue uhra loe yeld byand 0 mg neotie Ju "tar , Over 10 Jay uf
1 H MeBesch, MD. MPH amoking the witra low yield poup had plasma nicotine levels that weir unly 40 2
Eserwtive DirecsoriManuging Faherr cent of the own brand prup (9 vs 22 ngimi, carbon monos we leve Jillered by
Adrieane E mh 8 ? ceaI u0 vs 3322 ppm) (Alhouuh mue noted in the Meihud, umukess - c
Pabliramn Drret explicaly instructed not to block hiser vEnI IK West, Personal Cummuncattun)
Deyne Bakky Simularly, in the expermmntal cumponent uf shen report, Benowit.. et a huund
Assisrent Munagmg F panill compensation S smuk er whe were forced le smoke witra -lw PIII CIF .
Marva Barne (Behavioral bluc king of Aiier venus as nut forbudden is this Mudy. but 2 harc been
The combuned lesson of the cross secional surveys and the forced s hing
2 m 1 expenments is that, . there is lo be maximal progress with she current wyle witra -re
Darken Dobbs yickd cuparete.. as use aeds lo X encuuraged mu aee forcelully. (ne uf the r . -
Prode Adpemiing Auiten smokers dun's 7 up wsth ultra luw yells 15 that hugher yeel cigarete - only an
3 purchave away Imagine chuculate kover la e wath an I chaulale un a
desen island suc h candy t seem a treat, but in a : stu ked Apurs stare the N
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS pseudoc hocolates would gather dusi, especially d they . A rue chcaper 2
ir cigarette manufacturers wer requred E make only - 2 a I cilee
Barburs PaMR A G Rosenkranta Thrn - Ne PDD (guarding against mure problemars fiter desenis). thee cuparetes mugh à
1 H i MD. DrPH grealer efless on eapesures lo smoke toxins thanthey de in the wide upen mut > 2
Neers T F Finke a drug conient of medications is stnccly regulated su shuuld be Jrug yicl ot cigareue
Jean Connelky MLS 1 Many smukers would over smuke shes ciparenes. by break ung utl hiter 1
I i blocking vent holes and by smoking grealer numbers per day. AnJ smme m -

Irene H. Butier, nD (1987

Julisa A. Waller. MD (190)) reviewed in the curr en repor

Philip G. Weiker MD 118

Ediariiel taiitter discouraged by Jetanls of the procedure *y
George J I JD. MPH ihe more satislyung chocolates

Michelie Honen
Pebi Nrehh - rhr Les

APPH Mer 1007, Vol 77 No

535

2501662717