8s/u/s

IHTT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Nrw York Timer Semie

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotioc about 08 New Taiwan dollars -
made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even is recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22

TAIPEI The Marlboro coW- dn sales of $119 million. la 1986, trade : between the United New Taiwan dollari E. cents) for R
boy .s his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- States and Taiwan. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghng from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly is shieng. Taiwan' S deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis
town. His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri. economic affairs, régistered R ing Ss Japan are more liberal. Com-
Buukrd--mm jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted pive out free cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign. Television
This frenetic, fast-growing Da- cigaretie exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lrwed in the United States in 1971.
tioc of nearly 20 million pcopie b because both Tawan and Japan school students 12, C! years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
mokkd 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-1 -sanding restrictions. are now smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry a label that,
year and for the first time, I According lo the Brown & Wil- rette companies promote cigarettes roughly traoslated, says, "For the
mbstantial number of them were Hamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? It's O.K. to have them seke of health, don't smoke t00
made is America, not Taiwan. all Americaanmade cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- mucb" - warning much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy 915, billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels
brinds to Taiwan, American man- sulting S" $i billion in new sales. the United States. But those people mandated in the United States.
Wacturers have essentially intro ln Japan, which has s population are just like robbers. JI you are A Tbe 'oompanies say Amencan
ing teen-agers 01 take da moking. more than 0J percent last year, thing Suoim with the way thry are cigaretses are made of blended to-

and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.

panies can advertise on TV after

oui this city. next to posters o I peroent.
er of Winston cigarettes.

"They go 01 amusement places t0 8:50 P.M. and arc now conducting

for most of the growth is American hr said recently. "Many scbool- Surpmape of cigarettes was out-

paonp cigarette advertising t the of 120 million and where people,
ialand, and tbat has created E furor. snoke 300 billion cigarettes a year. EI
Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled E American
tbe American companies of entic ube past year. Tbe market share of
The goveramec--ddministeee dicts that it could grow lo 61 8. 20 sales pitch.
operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992.
prenrure from Washington. In the alcohol.
-cign cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw
have soared. generating much- courage its
peadod growth for American man-
laws .n way dn

human being. you wod't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan
nos or mucb because of the adver-
manufactur- tising a because they are of better
quality and taste beiter. American
and bacco and have less tar than Tai-
products ther say wancse cigarettos, which are not

cigarette
their

American cigarettes increased to 6 vigorously deny there is any-
Department of Agriculture pro- ihry have no pians to change
American pressure to open their have they pusbed sodo 10, they say.

charge tbe American companies
tise,, altbough it does now,

boly deny.

from 3 percent 5" 1986, and the promoting

bleoded.

Tbey are not allowed 9 advertise
i small stores where cigarettes arc
a legisiator. tions. Cigarette manulacturers may
to amoke, why zines, cach o whoec droulation sel.
dom exooods 200,000.
young attractive 19-yoar-old girls oent o tbe market. Taiwan E
Suyvo short skirts 0 pive dut dit posed strict quotas on forcip
and then it becomos a babit. I''s cigarettes and imposed stif teriffs.

the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials say tbey resent on television or in newapapers. Nor
The government agreed to allow markets te products that éndanger Tbey can advertise only through
.otbers into tbe business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and poriers hung near cigarette racks or
year since stiff restrictions oc for. "This really burts our feclinga. ! sold, a well as through promo-
k American cigarettes a Taiwan I. ube United Shau-kong Suses docs not en- aiso place 120 ada a year in maga-
the Unitod States are way down and femaies are smoking a los be Before last yoar, forcign diga-
and tbe number ol anti-smokkin caus of American ada. E hire rettes accounted for leas than - per.
According 0I U.S. Depart- arettes (ree in nightclubs. k's vory cigarettes, banned imports at tbe
mbat ol Agriculture, people B. Tal- difficult for tunak boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenued to sell

poople

sfacturers at - time when sales in export to LUVALL Younger people

the

immoral."

Asa rerult, imporied ciparetine cost