DALLAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Texas April 14, 1954
Tobacco Firms Ask
New Cancer Studies NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing growers: and tobacco charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers. toonal" statements linkdng smoking Among those quoted by the com- and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer Institute of the United States Gov- relationship of ernment, which snid is a 1953 cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of for exhaustive research te estab- had not been established. lung Several caneer lish the basie cause of the disease. ot the institutels scientists aiso The tobacco industry research were cited, Others quoted were the Damon booklet con- Runyon Fund, which called for taining previously published state- more research, and Chicago a ments by thirty-six cancer author cer Surgeon Dr. Max Cutler, who ities doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons by other cancer experts that tobac- deveiop lung cancer partly because may of smoking but that to accept the The earliest, whitten in 1923, sald conclusion of a direct there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientific relationalip none that would produce turnrr. hazardous." The most recent, dated last March M smoke in the lungs were a "9r said much more research must sure-fire cause of cancer, we' 'd all be done before causes of lung can- have had it long or any other kind ot cancer quoted Dr. Clarence ago," Cook report The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratory, Bar Har- 5 January te combat mounting bor, Maine. charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the up of nearly every_major eigarette University of Texas School of Medi- manufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Inau
Industry sided picture of the committee issued a co causes lung cancer.
E
apd the
cer can be establisbed.
director of the Roscoe B, Jackson Littie, ance Company and British author- itles, Neariy all those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until an absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report was described by an industry spokesman as 5 "in- terim" statement, pending an- nouncement of the choice of a prominent scientist to supervise basic cancer research de be d- nanced by the industry. That scien- tist will decide how the industry's cancer-research money ls a he spent. No date has been set for his At the last count, the: committee said; there were more than 2 cancer research grants in the United States alone, "any one of which might produce evidence to unlock the secrets of lung cancer,"
selection.
