WIACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRIBUNE
D. 25,605
S 49,326
WACO METROPOLITAN AREA
MAR S i963

FC Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard-. Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission froni going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it
does not scem right or logical that ono medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer a hile
newspapers, magazines, billboards and ou nter
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC sald i: is proposing to refuse licenses
01 broadcnsters who carry cigarette advertising
becauso of evidence that smoking is injurious to hcalth
and thc FCC has an obligation to protect the public
intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bipger than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals to do
as they please so long as they doa't harm another.
DE also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that if nok don't mention something. maybe it won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Hlorida Democret. and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Con-
merce Commitice, snid in reference to the proposed
FCC rule that the ngancy had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. He said he douits that FCC has
any right 0) tell an advertiser what he could not
say in jis advertisements, Rogers said Congress will
take a close Icok: at the whole question o! regulations
on televisinn and radio ndvortising content. not only
as to the Federat Communications Commission but
in regard to Federa! Trade Commission practices as
The stakes invalved extend beyond the business
of broadcasling. They go to the hcart of whethed
government bureaus should he allowed to go beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Health.

hurt you and will disappcar.

well.
3

tho limits of due proccss and thc law.