SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME. A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43

In e cross-sectional investigarion in one building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validased
complains associaied with the "sick building syndrome' questionnaire. The sympioms were more commos e bild-
were moasred on e linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and
Ar the same dime. the micro-environmend (envirormental humidification, imrespective of the %e of the buildings. A
characieristics 5 the breaching zone racher dhen anea direct relationship between the level of complaints and air
samyples) E characierized by measuring 'amdat quality parameters was not described. Skov et al. (1967) es
relacive hamidiry, respirable suspended periculases, ar amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern 1
bon dioxide, noise level, lighaing inensiry, relacive à to halls and - older control buildings. A kevel of symp
midiry, and airflow. No relarionship E seen berween 1 : related 01 . "fceciag" factor (carpets, upholsery.
che degree of sympioms and age, educarion. or dunstion and horizontal surfaces) ad the "macro-moleculer compo
of employmen at the building or aime spent iS che budld- nent" of dust. They aiso demonstrated a relationship berween
S on a daily basis. Siaristically, complaine wETE the oumber of hours spent photocopying and using carbonless
significandly more freguent among Supyour 1 Eavi- anpy paper and the level of complaints. Other srudies have
rommental characterisics associased 1 e increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985)
complaint levels in chis group included decressed airflow and prychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) cootribute
models, chere à an association berween respinsble a- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome by #
pended particalaes and the levels of boch MCONE I suring symptoms and enviroamental exposures. Robertaon et
brane and sysemic complaints. Sarisfaction wisk dhe P (1965) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif.
I exvirorment B predicied by percepcion of dneft ferences ls the concentrations of eaviroemental pollutants
inaensiry a also associated $ complaints. nne strate a relationship between sympsoms and both ares
1 of phe aick building syndrome should examine ples measuring dust and . "macro-molecular fraction, a

.
&

velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended, par 9 indoor air quality complaints.

siculares and dry-bulb sempenanre. In 1
did AOE clearly conaribuse a che degree of symypson
alchough regression models PIP mggest dar conypl
wnE nof independent of chermal parameers.

Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
berween rooms le a mechanically and a naturally veutileted
building. They srudied the rooms with the 1 comp
I and used area samples. Skov et a (1987) & des
Area samples is buildings may not be representative &
the exposures le different points in # rooms. Physical
charscteristics such as windows and partitions, computers,
and shelving may influence air currents. Radiant heat may

mahiple exposres simulaneoualy 2 1 prycho- in area I
social meaneres a idenaify prediciors of complaint in

indoor spaces.
INTRODUCTION

Complaints sermed the É building syndrome" bave lead 01 uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally. mout -
led to numerous investigations in the last 15 I They are hutants resukt from point sources, 0E they will be diluted -
thought to occur primarily le newly constructed oflice 1 subject  farther removed from the source. The micro a
E and, at least in the past, were thought to be due to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Nevertheles, . different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroe
wide variery of causes have been identified le specific I ment of a building. In addition. all applied occupational and
including inadequate temperarure and relative I 8 enviroamental health rescarch that attempes 01 relate dose o
trol. noise, lighting. vibration, volatie organic compoands bealth eflects sufliers from the problem that dose . penerally
and formaldehyde. microorganisms, enviroamental sobecco measured at several points in time and then extrapolated 8
smoke, pesticides, : entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decadies
spent & contaminated air and boiler fumes. bbers released * most health eflects are messured as a 1 1 of
from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of I
A group of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms Aeus change not merely trom
et al. 1964) suggested that these complaints were related pri day 0s day but from hour to hour, 1 a stratepy must 3
(Robertson et al. 1985) : unable to identify diflerences in attempsed to characterize air-quality parameters in the micro
wet-bulb globe temperature, dry-bulb temperarure (temper- eaviroament and set these characteristics 9 relation o the
ature). relative humidiry. air velocity. formaidehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at a pven point ls I This
itive or negative ons between several rooms la a building report presents results of a Cross- sectional investigation of a
with narural and a building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using a self-administered. linear I
where both à of rooms had high leveis of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
: I a Aasisuant Professor of Medigine and e lndustrial and Eaviroamental Heakth Sciences at the Univerty of Femburgh Schooe
of Medicine and Publc Heahh. a 3 a Director. Environmestal Heakth and Safery. Camepie-Melion Univerty. Pirsburgh. A

(Kreiss and Hodpson 1964; Hodgson and Kreiss 1966).
marily o1 mechanical ventilation The same poup of athors

results la greater than the difference in average samples, an
No investigations in the peer-reviewed litersture have

34e5p