HK82223022

Life Sciences Vol. 15. pp 1291-1300
Printed in the : A.

Pergamon Press

MTAROEISK à BENTO (a)PYRENE BY KICROSONES FON
TISEUEE a PRPCLAaNT Ap TITAL MASNTERE
Irese a Wsng, Ronald B. Rasmuesen, and : 7imothy Crockar*
Can . Besearch Tnstitute, Univareity of California, E Praneieco, and Depart-
mene of Community and mvironmental Medieine, Univeresty of Calsfornia, Irvine".
(Received in final form 26 August 19745
Sry
Pretreatmest ef hansters with benso la)pyrene (BaP) greatly increased
3 5I vitre metabal is of MAP by lung alerosonns fron prognant han
atare, and  I effect on the metabolien of BaP E 1iver miere-
somos. The produetion of various metaholites ef BaP by lung micro-
sonos w inereased :o different extentas 3-hydrery-mar (3-CH-BaP1
was ane of the najor matabolitee the metabolic yielde of 9,10-
ainptreaihyloy-har ,10-di01) and 7,8-diol were inereased more
than thse ef the 4,5-diel. Tn : I of liver mierosonee, only ae
yielde of $,10-diol and 7,8-diol were ineressed ovar the contrel
levels, The presence of eyclohexene oride in the incuba tson :
eures decreased the production of the diole. Dasal-leval antyme
setfvities in placental, fetal 1iver, and fetal akin mierosonen ia
mataholisiee Map were very low, Pretreal thent of pregmant hainsters
with RaP Indaced BaP-met taholieing entymes in fetal tisrue 2 fold.
Bense (a)pyene (ar se . carcineser and enwironmental cont - nane ae is
found in coal CAT, mineral ofl, aar exhaust, tohacco saoke, moked foode, etc.
(). In viero stadice ahovod thse netabolie activation of aar se required for
ita intaracticn with proteins and nuclele aeide (2,3) Farller stdies with
: livar pr eparations 14,5) and hanstar 1iver micrnt - a (6,7) shoved thas Bar
le metahelised mainly 8 phenolse and dihydredihytreny (aiell dier seagasAy. and
to quinones whie are enzymatie OE air oxidation peoducte of enstable phenolic
metabelitas (4,5) as well : sone nidentifin more polar netabelites. the
metabelies of sA has generally hnen neamured Aq the production of 3-hydroxy-
BaP 03-OR-haP) wich je often an of the major netahol ites in anga (3). 3-0-
DaP ie tosic te altured call (9). 1 ie shovs wery 11etle interaction w th
DNA in witro (6) 3 has not been shon :a 3 carcinegenic. & the otheE hand,
K-reaton epowides ef velatel pelyeyelie aronatic hytrocarlons (PAbind to cell-

1291