4
E/u/ri
IT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira Mew Verk Timer Servicy
wan bought 5.1 billion American American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars a made cigarettes last year, ringing became an issue even in receat pack ($2.86) compared with 22
TAIPET I The Marlboro cOW up sales of $119 million. In '9861 trade E between the United New Taiwan dollars (79 cents)for - boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Suatcs and Taiwan. Wang Chicn- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes Dow hold nearly 81 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits o0 cigarette advertis 1ow. His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered  ing bs Japan are more liberal. Com- This frenetic, fast-growing 0A- cigarette exports last year, primari teachers told me that junior high lawod 5 the United Suates in 1971. tion of nearly 20 million pcopie A because both Taiwan and Japan school students I 12, 13 yoars old Cigarette packages sold in Japan To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. ro Adnooo joy - $16 billion trade surplus with than the health- -warning labels brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in si billion in Dew sales. the United States. But those people mandaied in the United States. Wacturers have essentially intro le Japan, which has a population are just like robbers. I you are A Tbe companies say Amencan
and dod-pur-ou stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest. guitar-playing pep-sura promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted
panies can advertise on TV after
o01 this city, next to posters % - peroent. of Winston cigarettes. amoked 34 billion year - and for the RE time, . rubstantial number of them were lamsoa Made l9 America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to paonp cigarette advertising to the smoke 300 billion ialand, and that has created a furor. Government oflicials bave accused imports have more than tripled tbe American ing teen-agers a uake da mmoking. more than 10 percent last botly deny. operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992. presure from W ashingion. In the alcohol. 8 ciparettes WETE dropped. sales said Jaw sfacturens at . time when sales in laws : way up.
"They amusement places 1o 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting out cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign Television
er
for
od
most of the growth in American aa said rocently. "Many scbool- advertising of cigarettes was out- last dropped long-siandiog restrictions. - are now smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry labcl that, & the Brown & Wu- rette companics promote cigareties roughly translated, says, "For the
Corp. exports ol like that? Id's of 120 million and where people a cigarettes year. ir that. American the past year. Tbe market share of *
have O.K. d& them
sake &. health, doa't smoke t00 the whole markets. We en mucb" - - waming much milder "urtu - human being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taivan nos Bo much beczuse of the adver- tiing as because they are of better there a any quality and taste better. American thing Ouoin with Sp way they are cigaretier are made of blended to wancse cigarettos,
t
cigarette manufactur- Tbey are not allowed 9 advertise s small storcs where cigarettes are tions. Cigarette manulacturens may don cxooods 200,000. Bdore last yoar, forcign e girla cent of tbe market. Taiwar
companics of entic- American cigarettes increased to 3 vigorously . Thc sorerametadsiniserd dicts that it could grow to 15 to 20 sales pitch.
a charge a American companies frons w percent 5 1986, the promoting their producta and a bacco and have less whicb tar than Tai-
are not
Department of Agriculture oid thry have no plans 1o change thes blended. American pressure 55 open their have they pusbed e do 10, they s4y,
5 cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials they resent 00 television oE in newapapers. Nor The government agreed to allow markets to producta that éndanger Tbey can advertise only througb others into the business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and posiers hung ncar cigarette racks of year since stiff restrictions 00 for. "This really burts our feelings, sold, as well as through promo- 2 American cigarettes UT Taiwan n.. tbe United Shau-kong Sustes docs legisiator. not en also place 120 E - ycar in map have soared, generating much- courage its people to smoke, why zines, cach al whosc groulation acl- and tbe number ol anti-smoking causc of American ada. They hire rettes accouatod for less than - According to U.S. Depart- arettes froe in nightchubs. W's a cigarettes, banaed imports at asedt al Agriculture, people B Tai- difficult lor funok boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed 1o sell
tised, altbough it does now.
a
peaod growth for American man- export to Taiwan? Younger the Unitod Suates are way down and femalcs are smoking .
E po-rak-6!
young attractive immonal. -
&a E
the
wearing short skirts d8. give 8 cis posed strict quotas 8 and then it becomos a habit. It's cigaretter and imposed stin tariffs.
Asa reswlt, imported cipareties cost
