Val 285 Na. 23

EDITORIALS

1517

The New England
Journal of Medicine
Officia! Organ of
The Massachusetis Medlical Society
the NEv ESGEAND JOUNAL oP
MEDICINE AND SURGERY and continued in 1828 as Vol. of
the Bostos MEDICAL AND SUAGICAL JOUANAL,
PURLISHES WEEKLY BY THE COsNTTEE o PUSLICATIONS
or TS MASSACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY
Claude E. Welch, M.D., Ghninsan
Joseph Carland, M.D., EDIToR EMERITUS
Franz J. Ingelfinger. M.D., EpIror
ASSOCIATE EDroas
George S. Richardson. M.D., Boos REVIEWS
Robert OLeary, ASSISTANT EDIToR
EDITORTAL BOARD

ACTION ON ASBESTOS
AShESTOs workers are unintentional victims of
industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary
fibrosis, pleural calcification, mesothellomas and lung
cancer. Asbestos exposure is nosw
involving not only air but also
wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the
lungs of people without inclustrial asbestos ex-
posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or
ferruginous bodles may be, there l- no doubt that
electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers
ease in the general population at this time, the
presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing.
Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by
most chemical and physical means and can float
freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods.
Asbestos discases have a long latent
sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must
be made now, on the basis of "reasonable probabili-
ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition
of dose-response relations,
These thoughts are reinforced by the work of

Founded la 1813 as

widespread,
drinking water,

Alexander Marble. MD.
Samucl Proger, M.D.

Saul S. Radovsky, M.D, has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al-
Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-

20
period,

Jane F. Desforges, M.D.
Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.

Ronald A. Malt, M.D.

Arnold L. Smith, M.D, years or more. We therefore believe that more

Robert E. Johnson, M.D.
Norman 2 Levinsky, M.D.
Francis D, Moore, M.D,
Charies A. Sanders, M.D,
Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D
Ronald A. Arky, M.D.
Dana L. Farniworth, M.D.

John w. Lidefield, M.D, Murphy and assoclates in this fssue of the Journal
Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, (p 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in
Louis Weinstein, M.D, new ship construction include better than usual
John R. David. M.D. exposure data and indicate a high incidence of as-
Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. pestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have
Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-

Howard Bleich, M.D,

Isadore N. Rosenberg, MD.
Milion C. Paige, 4 BUSINESS MANAGER
manuscript, including references, should

tions. A second study of Murphy et al. reports two
cases of pleural disease (one mesothelloma) in
workers who sanded asbestos floor tiles. Since the

AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au-
ua! should consult "Information for Authors. This material thors simulated the working conditions and found
may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour conçentrations of 1.3 Gbers per milliliter of room
nel. or it may be obcained from the Joamal office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of
space, and all material, including higures, should Ese submit- used threshold limit values. A fber per milliliter of
CASE REFORTS, usually published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours Inhales some 10 Abers every
gence' section, should include only the pertinent detsils and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled

be

double

currently
figures suggest that
has called for control

ted in duplicate.

room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per
an alarming number will still accumulate over a 10-
A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation-
asbestos emissions at the source and for protec-
The report also calls for further rescarch on the

reference to anticles reporting closely related cases. A very Rbers remains in the
short case report or n description of a technic submicted as a
"BRIcy RECORDING" should be limited to 500 sords.
MATERLAL printed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period.
cine is covered by copyright, The Jourva! does not hold itself
responsible for statements made by any contributor.
NOTIcES should received
be
day, 24 days befone date of publication.
cies published Requests should be sent to the author.
imply endorsement by the Jounnal,
Arbor, Michigan 48106.
chusetus 02115.

these
lung,
panel

al Academy of Sciences

not later than noon on Mon- of

-

REPRENTS: The Journal does not stock reprints of the artl- tion of those who ane exposed In their occupations.
ALTHOLGH all advertising material accepced is expected to biologic effects and the physica! characteristics of
conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance docs not asbestos fibers; such data are urgently needed "If a
SUBSCRIFTION PRICES fworldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with
interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates are s. U.S. fundsonly, confidence." Although we endorse these recommen-
MICRORILSE volumes available to regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for
through University Microfilms, 31S N. First Street, Ann technical controls based on existing
COMUNICATIONS shouid be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as-
land Journal of Mediçine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects

knowledge.

on cells and tissues are important and must be con-