di Epidemial Vol 47, Na. 10.90 1143-1162, 14
Copgrighe o 1994 Elsevier Scicnoe 3
Pvinsed is Great Beitain AR righus rescrvod
0895-4356/94 $7,00 + 000

Pergamon

0895-9354949000814

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN SMOKERS, EX-SMOKERS,
PASSIVE SMOKERS AND NON-SMOKERS
AuISON THORNTON, PETER 5 and JOEN FRY
P. N, 3 Statistics and Computing Lad, 41 Cadar Road, Sutton, Surrey M2 SDA, England
(Reeraed a restsed forin & March 1994)
Abstract-The extent 0 wich current, ex- and passive smoking are associated with
other risk factors, and the potential for confounding arising from these associations, was
studiod using a representative sample of 9003 British adults. The distribution of 33
lifestyle (actors generally considered associated with adverse health were compared in
current smokers, ex-smokers, never smokers living with a smoker ("passive smokens")
and other never smokers. or the 33 risk factors 27 showed a significantly higher
prevalence in heavy smokers than in never smokers and only two showed a lower
prevalence. For many risk fuctors, prevalence increased with amount smoked, decreased
with time of smoking cessation and was increased in passive smokers. The possible
magnitude of bias from confounding by the risk factors 3 estimated. It is concluded that
confounding by multipke risk factors may be an important issue in smoking studies
where weak associations are obscrved. This applies particularly to studies investigating
the possible association of passive smoking with various health effocts.
Smoking Passive smoking Confounding Bias

INTRODUCTION

gists normally do attempt to take account of

Numerous epidemiological studies have investi- such differences where relevant to the endpoint
gatod the relationship of current smoking, past studied and thus 5 to minimize bias due 01
smoking and exposure to environmental confounding. Differences between non-smokers
tobacco smoke ("passive smoking") to mor- exposed and not exposed to environmental
tality and morbidity from a variety of diseases tobacco smoke are less well studied, though
11) Because smokers and passive smokers are recent reports [4,5] have pointed to a possible
not a random selection of the population, such confounding of the lung cancer relationship by
theoretical possibility that observed differences A study of the literature over many years by
between the groups studied may arise, at least in one of us (PL) has led to a number of -aud
part, duc 9 differences in exposure from other visional conclusions being reached. Firstly,
risk factors and not wholly to effocts of smoking smokers tend to have unhealchier lifestyles than
or of environmental tobacco smoke exposure. non-smokers in n number of respocts, os that
Many differences between smokers and non- they would be expocted to have higher rates of
smokers, such as in alcohol consumption [2]and many diseases even in the absence of any effoct
social class [3). are well known and epidemiolo- of smoking Secondly, for many of these lifestyle

studies have always to take into account the diet.

factors passive smokers are also somewhat
worse off than non-smokers unexposed to

Author for correspondence

143