True-Taise Questions on the Chenistry and Pychophyslology. of Odor end Flevor 1. I Song nodern workers suggest that nocurate mensurement of vibrationa! frequency (in the far Infrared, for exanple) of an unknown odorant wili permit prediction of its quality and intenslty. . No elenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone has any odor: Instead they react with the mucoss foraing new products whlch are smel lled; but T Sone odorants have sterlc or vibrational propertles which force the cone luslon that they are odor less whon they are not. Present evidence strongly suggests thet different parts of the o! factory receptor ares, IIke the retina In he eye, are qua ty-spocific. 1 Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor T No one yet has a Fire clue as fo the criticol relation between the molecule nna the receptor which permits an odor perception. 7 The greeter thve secretion rate of nuco a . or sallve, the nl gher their 'd and both pHI and temperature influence te quallty of sensetion in the 111. - The Ideal Instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sane quantitetive range as does an an Ina or human Subject. TF Such an Ideal detecror has not boen developed. Iv. - - Hann observors with head In fixed position can by virtue of the two Iridopondent nostriis easily discern stereo Suoll effects, 1.e. they can tell whofier ns ororant Is of the right or lefr hand, snt as one uses his two ears In locating the source of a sound. - For certaln musk-1Ike compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger - hunon olfact ory response. Adaptation to ona olfactory oun lity does not significant ly reduce sensirivity to any ofher dissiel far quallty, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all sinllor quellties. - By employing a siatierities nethod of conparing qualities, one can noy obtain Ident ity and degroes of difference without rocour se to irohlo- V. - Hunger loers thresholds slightly to some food quallt les but not for - Ir le now possibie to Tdentify the Intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull slaply by experi examination of the electrophyalologieel record taken from approprlate odtor or taste neur rons. T Electrical stimuletion of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkaling quality. TF Direct etectricel stimuletion of the olfactory senso has nover yer beon successfully eccompllshed. vIl. TF Although tofal anosala is rare In humans and ageusia even rarer, there is evidence that in analogy to color vision deflciences, sone people are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities whi le having nornal sensitivity to others. TF Topical enesthetics applled to the tongue ho that different quelltles TF Certaln endocrine disease entitles nake = possible for sone people quire sensitively to "ssell" such "odor Tess' sutistances as sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to nonsal by eanipuletion of endocrine levels. TF & onenopausal wonen at the Ime of ovulation find certaln odors extrese ly disegreeable while at ofher Ines in the menstrual cycle these same odon
sone elements possess taste.
11.
sur face In order to be see led.
chemica! senses.
V.
son words. others.
of taste dis sappear : different rates.
they wil Judge quire pleasent.
oKI
