HK82228112 SASTA SAKBARA SANT4
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIECO
a - a MPAKTME / - 1111 January 3, 1977 Dr. Willian H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Research roundation 715 Kuir Lands Visto Hay La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. Fishman: ànd Salk.
-
: in : - ,
We are looking fonaard to your active participation in the scientific activities of the La Jolia rescarch cocdunity. In particclar, the activities of the La Jolla Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzsaes should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at VCSD but also at Scripps The establismrent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental prublems is particularly ieely. It will be o grvat potential importance for pulling tegetter vork, by a number of laboratories directed touard isolation, character iztaion and doterniriation of the sipnificance of hurian Oncodevelcpmental antigens such as alphafetuprotein and carcinoxsbryonic ant icens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship of increased serusa conçentrations of AFP to preralignant lesions or carcinogen exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and nouse model systers clearly derion- strate tnet anirals pasocixo to hejatocarcinoyens have clevated serum AFP concen- trations prior to developrznt of islionant Lucrs. It is hoped that systertic study of hunan sera frum differert sources will determing if serus AFF concin- In addition, the role of env Tomental factors such as hormoal influences on the production of omcodeyeloment. gene pr-hs can be further explored in different syiteas. Such data imolics tha! (h prod:ution of cicocevelopmental gene products by tunsor cells is net a fixed property of a given tumoir but is We look foncard to vorkinn with ycu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the important subjeci of oncodeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinogen exposure.
subject to environmçrtal controls.
expression. Best regards, Stewart Sell, N.D. Professor SS/nb
