PKu
Carcinagenel vel W n41 13 StLE-Izd n661
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino-1-pyridyl-1-butandne and benzola)pyrene: a potentially usefu! model for evaluation of
63420
chemopreventive agents
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amaencan Fiealth Foundation. Valhalla, NY 10595. USA
models examined 0 date (2). BaP is a protorype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (). We have chosen the A/1 mouse because previous
The purpose of this study SCA to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluntion of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas ane induced lung cancer in smokers, Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to by 4-fmethylnitrosamino)-1-O-pyridyl-I-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined and benzojaipyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastric gavage (i-g-) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of intraperitonen! injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and 7.12-dimethylbenzlalanthracene (9.10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse 01 evaluate the effects of forestomoch were counted. The ig route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than L.p. administration, (4,11,12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse can be replicnted because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other mode! systems For example, phenethy! isothiocyanate the Injection site and associated mortality, A dose response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by ig administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 rat (11,13). mice killed 9 or 61 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect to tobacco of 24 jmol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke. which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1), The have been espeeted extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important when given by the is. route: i.p. administrations of BaP nssess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP. The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted 01 use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 pmol of cach, administered in eight weekty smoking. in addition, the mode! should be relatively rapid and subdoses i-g-, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore we exomined tumos yields obtained dosing- This regimen induced 10.5:4.4 lung adenomas upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 00 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethy! isothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This (umor model wns employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzy! isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP. efficacy of chemopreyentive agents against lung cancer Facility. lts purity was establihed - HPLC as >99. BaP (98% purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Healrh Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirs containing s4 com oil. as prev iously 1o play a major role in the development of lung cancec in smo- into groups t 15 as sammarized in Table 1. At age 7 weeks. each mouse wa kers puouMIng-I-GAPYAG-OH-T-owusoonurkpou)-t (NNK*) treated by inraperitoneal (ip) injection or by lntragastric gavage (ig) with carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung all rodent dissolved in the 0. E used for treatment. Injections and gavages were carried *Abbreslations: NNK. 4-mathyhiuosmino) HOpydst-l-bens individuat dose was cne eighsh of the sotall. Equimolar doses of NNK aa Bat. benzolelpyrens: PEITC, phencihyl isothiocyanaic: BITC, benzyl Bap were wsed in most of the combination groups, bacause the amounts of
which these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP up combination was established in the that BaP was more tumorigenic 0) the lung than NNK
Most previous studies le the A/) mouse have examined
Comparisons of
and BaP given individuatly showed representatives of the lung
in tobacco smoke (17.
dt
carcinogens
We sought 9 develop a model which could be used to
5.9 + 5.7 lung aderomas/mouse 5 V 0.001) and completely thls study provlde a convenlent model for assessing the induction by tobacco smoke carcinogens
Inbibiting forcstomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
NNK wras synthesized in the Americas Heali Foundasion Organic Synthesis BITC (98% purity) and PEITC (9356 (Aund were abtained from the Aldrich Chemical Cempany (Milwaukee. wI. Cottonseed oll sas purchased from Female A) mice. age $ weeks. wene obeoined from The Jackson Labarsrory (Bar Harbor. ME) They were housed under standard conditions in the The design of the bioassay is allustrated la Figure 1. The mice were diviides pulmonary the appropriane chemical in 0. ml cononseed oil. NNK an BaP were bor out for 8 consecutive wecks. The toral doses we given in Tuble Fach NNK and total carcinogenic polyeyelic hydrocarbons ia tobacco smake are
Sigma Chemical Co (SI Louis, MO).
Introduction
agents against wo of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
and benzolalpyrene (BaP) (1) NNK la a isoihiocyansie, ip. Intriperitoncal, is, introgastric gavage.
N
o Oxford Unvensity Press
2721
