FF

Principal Investigator/Program Direcion (Last, first. middle).

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH
POSITION TITLE

Give the lollowing information for the key personnel and consullants and collaborators. Begin with the principal

investigatorprogram director. Photocopy this page lor each person.

NAME

Constance Smith

Postdoctoral Fellow

EDUCATION (Begin with Daccalaureate or offer initial prolessional education, such as nursing. and include postdoctoral training.)

YEAR
CONFERRED
1986
1994

INSTITUTION AND LOCATION
Wesicyan University, Middletown, CT
University of Califomia, Berkeley, CA
Emory University School of Medicine

DEGREE
B.A.
Ph.D.

FIELD OF STUDY
Biology
Molecular & Cell Biology

Postdoc 1994-presen; Anatomy & Cell Biology

RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Concluding with present position, list, in chronological order, previous employment. experience, and
honors. Key personnel include the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the project.
Key personnel typically wil include all individuats with doctoral or other profossional degrees, but in some projects will include individuals at the masters or
baccalaureate levei provided they contribule in a substantive way bo the scientific development or execution af the project. Include present membership on
any Federal Government public Aiosype committee List, inchronological order, the titles. all authors, and complete raferences to all publications during the
past three years and io representative earlier publications pertinent oo this application I tho list ol publications n the last three years excoeds No pages,

select the most pertinent publications. DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.
RESEARCHPROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

-
11/86 12/87
01/88 07/88
-
08/ 88/ 06/94
.
07/94 08/94
09/94 present
HONORS
1993
1994
1995-1996
PUBLICATIONS
Papers

Research Assistant, Anatomy & Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.
Participated in biochemiçal purification of tropomodulin in the lab of Velia M. Fowler
Research Assistant, Molecular Biology, Research Institute of Scripps Clinic, LaJolla, CA.
Assisted in polyclonal antibody production and purification in the lab ofVelia M. Fowler.
Doctoral Candidate im the laboratory of Dr. David A. Weisblat Molecular and Cell
Postdoctoral fellow, in the laboratory of Dr. Shirley T. Bissen, Dept. of Biology,
Postdoctoral fellow in the laboratory ofDr Marla B. Luskin, Dept. of Anatomy and Cell

Biology, Univ of California. Berkeley.
University ofMissouri, St. Louis, MO

Biology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA

Best poster award, West Coast Regional Developmental Biology Conference
Invited speaker for minisymposium, Society for Developmental Biology meeting
National Research Service Award, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and

Stroke

Smith, C.M. and Weisblat, D.A. (1994) Micromere fate maps in leech embryos lineage specific differences in
Smith, C.M., Lans, D. and Weisblat, D.A. An investigation of cellular mechanisms of epiboly .E leech embryos
Bissen, S.T. and Smith, C.M. mRNA synthesis is required for asymmetric cell division during a critical period of
Fowler, V.M. and Smith, C.M (8861) Inhibition of tropomyosin binding to F-actin by tropomodulin, a new
tropomyosin-binding protein from the human erythrocyte membrane. J. CellBiol 107: 681A.

rates of cell proliferation. Development 120:3427-3438.

(Submitted to Development)

early leech development (In preparation).

Abstracts

PHS 398 (Rev. 9/91)

(Form Page (9 Page
50650464

FF

Number pagos cuisocutively at the bottons thoughout tha applicatian no nor use suftixes sh as la