- I Dis Val. 38. No. 1. pp 17-26. 1985
Priased in Great Britain All rights reserved

0021-9681 85 $3.00 0.00
Copyrighe C 985 Pergamon Pess Lid

PSYCHOSOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ADOLESCENT
SMOKERS BEFORE THEY STARTED SMOKING:
EVIDENCE OF SELF-SELECTION
A PROSPECTIVE STUDY
CARL C. SELTZER and FRANK W. OECHSLI
Peabody Muscum. Harvard Liniversity Cambridge. MA 03138 and the Child Health and
Developmeat Studics, School of Public Hcaltn, University of California. Berkeley.

CA 94720, U.S.A.
(Recvinnd in rised forme 17 dayust 1984)

Abstract -Evidence of noncomparability of self-formed smoker and nonsmoker groups of
adolescents from the Child Health and Development Studies of the University of Califomia,
Berkeley. was found in - study of antecedent psychosocial characteristics (observed at age 101
before the adoption of the smoking habit. With possible confounding factors controlled, eventual
smokers showed significantly greater prevalence than nonsmokers of Type A personality traits.
eutraversion: psychoticism. anger. and nestless sleep. Eventual smokers were lower in 1ocic
economic status than nonsmokers. and aiv eshibited significantly lower mean scores for the
Raven Progressive Matrices and Peabody Picture Vocabulary tesis For cach trait. the trends of
the data were consistent in boys and girls Since many of these traits are shown 00 "track into
adult life. where they are then rdated 9 coronary heart disease. the role of self-sclection requires
further consideration in causal inferences about smoking und coronary heart discase.

INTRODLCTION

IN RECENT years, many published studies have shown an association that suggests a role
for psychosocial factors in the pathogenesis of CHD (1. 2] In the Framingham Study.
univariate and multivariate analyses showed a positive relationship of certain psycho-
social factors to CHD and also to cigurette smoking (3-5). The pervasive question of
temporal precedence and a priori self-sclection still requires further clarification. however.
In the absence of controlled experiments. the effects of cigarette smoking on health have
been inferred from observational studies that compare persons who smoke with
nonsmokers. le these comparisons. the disease outcomes are assumed to occur in cohorts
of smokers and nonsmokers who were initially similar in all relevant characteristics except
for the difference in smoking habit. Very little evidence has been available. however. to
The unique data of the Child Heaith and Development Studies (CHDS) of the
University of Califomia. Berkeley, provide an opportunity 01 check this assumption by
examining antecedent characteristics associated with teenage smoking [6-8]. The CHDS
is a prospective investigation of children from birth to late adolescence At various stages
of their development, the children were examined as 01 their biological, social. and
In this report. we have analyzed the antecedent psychosocial characteristics of a large
cohort of boys and girls before some of them later began cigarette smoking as teenagers
Reprint requesis should be addressed to: Frank w. Oechsli, Child Health and Deselopment Studies,
This project was supported ba Grant 1447 from the Peahody Muscum. Harsurd Linisersity

-

verify this assumption.

personality status. as well as environmental and familial influences

2131 University Ave. Berkeles, CA 94704, U.SA.

8 38/5-

F