Appundia >
SARINATS in CANCER 'A901018 Vol 1, 1990 : pP 197-186
The role of cathepsin L in malignant transformation
Susan E. Kane and Michael M. Gottesman -
Procathepsin 7 is the major excted protein ef malignantly What is MEP? The first hint as to the idendification of transformed mouse fibroblasts and it is one of the major MEP came from studies in which MEP was shown to acid asteine proteases in mammalian celis. The broad gen- be a glycoprotein containing mannose 6-phosphate. aal protease activily of cathepsin L against a variety of Since mannose 6-phosphate is a lysosomal recogni- extraollulay matrix proteins as uell as other intracellular cion marker, it appeared that MEP was a Ivsosomal protein substrates, and its regulation by factors which stim- protein whose transcription was increased as the ulate growth, isaddns that it contributes to the transformed result of growth stimulation. A search for hydrolytic phenolype. Possible functions in antigen processing, inua- activities associated wich purified MEP led 9 the dis- siveness, metastasis, and lumnouer of intracellular and covery that MEP was an acid protease inhibitable by secreted proteins involued in grouth regulation haue been leupeptin, which pur it in the class of cysteine -oud Key words: Cathepsin L / growth factors / mumor pro- resembled that of cathepsin L.I0 However, published THE ASSOCIATION of cathepsin L with the process of weights of 21,000 Da and 5000 Da. whereas MEP was malignant transformation was first demonstrated in a 39,000 Da protein. This discrepancy was resolved 1978, when : was found that malignandly trans when the sequence of MEP CDNA was determined formed mouse fibroblasts secrete large amounts of a and its deduced amino acid sequence was compared 39,000 Da protein into their culture medium. This to the available partial protein sequence of cathepsin protein, termed MEP for major excreted protein, was L MEP was found 01 be the precursor to the lysoso- purified to homogeneity and rabbit antisera were mal form of cathepsin LI identical 01 the major cys- raised against the purified mouse protein. The ant- teine protease of activated macrophagesi? and the sera were found to precipitate an intracelluiar -oud major ras-induced protein of transformed tein which was present in nontransformed celis and fibroblasts,1s For the remainder of dhis review, MEP synthesized at dramatically increased rates in trans- will be referred to as procathepsin L. be the result of elevated amounts of translatable MEP tied to growth stimulation in cultured cells? Does the mRNA.3 Later, after a CDNA for MEP was cloned, enzymology of cathepsin L. indicate anything about this high level of mRNA was demonstrated by nuclear its possible function in malignancy? Why is pro run-off sAesst to be the result of increased transcrip- cathepsin L secreted even though it carries lysosomal tion.5 PMA. a phorbol ester tumor promoter, and a recognition markers? How is a processed to yield variety of growth factorst67 were shown to stimulate mature cathepsin L in lvsosomes? How do oncogenes MEP synthesis and secretion, suggesting that MEP and growth factors reguiate expression of procathep- was associated with the process of growth in cultured sin L mRNA2 Does cathepsin L play a role in human
proposed.
teases.9 More detailed analysis of the proteolytic specificity of MEP on oxidized insulin B chain, a stan- dard protease substrate, showed that MEP activity data on cathepsin L suggested that the lysosomal form of this protease was a protein consisting of two polypeptide chains having approximate molecular
moters / onçogenes / secreted proteases
formed cells.2 This increased synthesis was shown to
Why is the synthesis of procathepsin L so closely
fibroblasts.
cancerr This resiew will attempt to provide answers to
these questions.
From the Laboratory of Moleculay Biology, Notional Cancer Instihute, NIH, 9000 Rockoille Pikr, Building 37, Room 2E16, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA T nhor repris reguests shond he addressed e 7990 b WB Sannders Company 104579X/90/0102010455.00/A
Enzymology of cathepsin L
Cathepsin L is 3s porent cvsteine protease ome of sev eral acid proteases presumed to be invoived in the
127
