BOULDER DATLY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994



Area stores

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For tha Delly Camera
nors.
kids.
ku,

referring to the increased enforce-
were issued a summons
perlly Tur selling tobacco to. a m
pau; t aiAnq. cigaretles. The

mont.

Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky enouebto
down on selling cigarettes 01 mi  appoar u court. Tho maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve horis a 00zs. fine
of the American Cancer Soclety's THB Supa. involved two toams.
Great Ameriçan Smokeout. was in Fach included a uniformed omcer.
tended to educate clerks that it's il- a piain clothes omcer. and two
legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High Schoolgiris, Who
Police targeted gas stations, son: girls" parenis signed a waiver al-
vénience, drug, grocery. and die lowing them lo tie pari u thcop:
Tay tas neverbeer enforced, said The juvenlles wara tojd not to
Boulder Policc Oficer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
"We're letting the stores know had 8 show identification.

nesses this week during a craçk.

ounc stores. Unui recently, the. eration.
this is going to happen, ahc sald,

the cigarettes. and, If asked, they
(See BOULDER, Page 3C)

Boulder police sting stores '
for cigarette sales to minors
At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, pegan 01 cry
281h SL, one of the giris asked when she was iksueg - m
the cashiar for a pack of Mart oysgugur caifd Ohg wzs a stu
boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- dent and couidn't ROEe u
ness, In plain dothes, poolg up court Costs. HAlkeness pot 16
Itne hehind her to witness thç e103829 hér, saying she couly
A placard near the cash regis the Distriet Attorney to do sam -
ter read, PI ID my own mother. munity ecrvice instradof paying
clerk asked to see some identif- The clerks, not the store oWn
cation- Thc buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the
she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it to usund
cd at the license, act it down on stores or clerks, ghe said. "Al-:
the counter, and sold her the though, when you acc clerks crys
Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Police targcted 15:
up and identified him alorgs and clen A al nil bur four
"Wlen I see them ask for an year. Tha Arst sting, conducted, sting
E I think they're going to re 51 Scptember, targeted 16 stores
fuse the cale, Haukeness sald. und 97 Clerks received sum:

(From Page (OT

The clerk af Colony Market,.

transaction.

prububly work out a dealwith-

No ID, No Sale, No Way," The the hne,
driver's license, which shownd court costs.

cigarettes.
stepot
summons.

ing, you mnight think otherwise. .
received summonses.
punsss tobacco. sale
monges.

as a police officer. Manka
came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wock'a
"But they never do."

operation was the
Fhis
: