NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A to campaign woo Da de County teenagers away from smoking la under way here as part of a nation-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groups, the society hopes 9 persuade a large pro- portion of the nation"  young people that smoking may Jead Key wrapnn ln the - É paign, le a flin sirip detalling the mse against tobscen, Ie has already I ahevs te sesenth Eraders in 13 achools ds eduational telesinien, and MIu 3 broadeast ta minih krade acience students s the apring. The sesenth-grade directed a teacher Bill program, included a panel discuasion in which students directed ques- tions at Dr. Francis N. Cooke, vepresenting the eociety. "Teachers I have talked to agree that although amoking le not a serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu- dents are approsching the age when the problem will be faced," Ene said.  value la a nimstrips a E 16 gives studesta € Joglcal argument with whleh ithey eonid refuse ta I - when enrauraged a : atrele ef friende," he addes E Nim atrip la aiso being Minn "live to senior bis - achools in the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October '6 0961
Education
Youth Habits
Cuts Fag
American cigaret soking can le reduced *8 per cent through a teenage education program a the high schools. These statistics were presenled Saturday 4 Walter G. I director of publie education for the American Cancer Society, here for the Florida Division, ACS, annual meeting I said the € € program was directed al leenajers as a wean fer eurbiag eancer becsmse a the sAapoe eveijetioe that stoking i a I al fatal I 2 proepects of reducing cigaret soking by one-fifth were abonn in . pilol program conducted with 1,000 high I students t Purtiand, Ore., 1 1 I de a sodenfs I I I ne most kkely de a Smoking increased ls d& successive bigh school grades. Among boys participAting is the Oregon arvey, 143 pes cent payows as freshmen, 35.2 & cent as sopbemores, 31.1 & eent a junians, 3 354 se seniors. A correspond- ing figures for girl afodents were 48 per 1 18.6 per cent, e or the studrnts. 258 per cent % the boys smoked regularly at lesst ence a ! a PP 116 per 1 ef the giris 4. Education prugrams againat smoking reduced the number al 1 amoker I boys from 13 cent to 7.7 & cent, and beginning girl smokers from - PROGRAME EVFECTIVE I said Che figures projected I . fouryper peris indicaled that & per eent P high schook I could - deterred hrom amoking through the ACS educational progra à stody. e E peyranal that the moat dflactive lesving the decision s I à * Least eflective, he related waa the 1 instructicn not - 1 As part af ib antiemoking eduration prograns. & ACS E devised a Ain strip - aflects A - 1 for acreming in
to cancer.
at the Lage. Mar Hotel cancer. ! . assume
Evans,
& aigaret pabit. - E per cent and 26.2 per gent.
€
per cent.
approach as in
P leng term lect * I
- achool clasroois BILL, MULLEK 0/0022686
