LOS ANAPIES TIES Los Angeles, California October 20, 1054 E been proved. Lale
hainl uudn the premise that hinatinn n a partirular type a nectinn hetween rica in each nf the three categaries rri smoking and disease 2 has alrcady produced a safe Might Take Sis Months one : is. so all can be made Dr. E. Cuyler Hammond. that way. 1fnot. the research who was in charge ol the most Dr. Carence Caok T.itte, compiete statistical study to chairman of the scientific ar- date. said that "some say we sisnre bnard and seient fie di tive evidence before develop- trs Research (Committee. de ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves wnnlirt nne has said just what the de prndure snme nf the Aefni- finitive es idence wand be." live eviderce In waich Dr He sasd he "took issue' with Hammond referred. In nis salk 1n the Ameriran "We wiil Tarkle
J1. 5 cigarette. seientific re- search should prove which should find one, "since peo- ple like to smoke ciparettes." rector a the Toiarnn Indas. seribed 1se nutlines nf siad- Tackle Unknewns
Calls Safe Cigarelfes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming
Expert for
L'niversity atatistician should wait for
more defini
NEW YORK Ort. 61 AIP) this viewnoint.
The rvidence connecting cig- Cancer Snciets meeting. Dr cously mans of the unknowns simultan- arette smoking with hoth Hammon sairt the relation- ls this field of tobaccn 11n us lung cancer and heart dis. ship nf rigarette smoking to relation to human health. . ease is "overw helming" and the heart and the vascular said in announcing the ous- something should be done at from the standpoint ol public program. "We seek definitive onee abour developing "a safe health, than the relationship findings in an area where cigarette." A leading statisti- to lung cancer 1 program to much suggestive sork has cal scientist told the annual find a safe eigarette from heen done. The program o meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard reongnizes tha: we Tobacco Industry Research inhacen, there are varinus relationghmn hetween rri ra Committeo ansounced some oftypes n fiters, anri these are menral factors, including the details nf Etis seientifie re sarinia terhn'ques 3 curing The most impertant
ssstem was more important, line of the industrv's research might prnve surcessful in aix dn not have todav the experi months, rirh luck," he said menta! evidencr that 1 nrr-
Cancer Soclety today, At the same time the scien- tihe advisory board of the srarch prngram 14 a eh is he that
Outlines Deseribed There are various types C tobaren, he Rair. and it may gome fortuitans rnm- 901 ANGELES EXAMINER los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
mit scientific cnnckssyons PA. garding the anri rFers rause sninkine and lune cancer nrneet set un was a dineg adiv C eurrent lung cancer rases - 10 medical centers 1s lie : - ed States and Canada.
It will inelude numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokers. as well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. The apecifie research grants, financed Aq the TIRC, ill be announced Jater.
HEALTHSTUDY ON TOBACCO YORK, Oct. 19. € A broad ste point study seek ing lenowledge whether eigarets or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards was announced today. It is the first announcement of a big research proyram headed Aq the selentifie ad. visory board of the Tobacco In dustry Rese reh Committen
NKW
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
