li
a
996
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richard L. Nacye, MD, and Woodrow S. may vary in incidence and Somerset Counties of
Findings Dellinger, MIS the men had ever
Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one pationt to another: In coal, roentgenographic categories for found to correlate well with quantitative. measurements of 3 the volume of macules and nodules. recognition of cmphysema and chronic cor miners with no roentgenographic silica and collagen,
process but a a study of 77 miners of postmorlem anatornic dioxide)and collagen content of dust évidence of pneumosoniosis had
rank, low-volatile cosl in Cambrin and rykania. Nonc of central P'ean- cucted between aot and 19-5 lvy ths Pennaylvanin lparimeat of Miner d Mineral Inslustries phured ar; a verage coal dust biturrinus work- fiee silica cuntent of cual d. ant le low in ail arenn ef Pnnayha- - - Reklom helny greater than :.. H owever, the mine durt cvherntrn- :: e of frve ailina In greater far sonte a iderround wurkets puch as Fof sillva-heariag - The 17 cascs palverin rand. selerted sA te ltid Kalagne dke ly wherinited eAch of Fyven piirpnse B npral hospitak, and rea. : 06t aarl I:his. The Patvh atarted with the patisnit Rirts" descriptiuns of the 1 lun,s, lty wIs an) nntion of ev a've ji ment, parenchy mal nndul - nana n er any hlatury of li. nt's clinical minins:. the j- chart was esan.ind. informatinn meerning na li anl uthr datis were esirde: A Werl Vir EV . M as inrludl in the atudy unly In specin minen Lad : : ur in : Nirmd ls a Te unrille Frsis Vir,itia Tl A "ail Aal Ihgla tie alvayy maine d highrr. in" smating a a A-s in: nhtained. Iimun'-r nne  Na a A Deller 231 027050
bituminous
pneumoconiosis were mined anthracite roal. Surveys ron- rocntgenepaphic ing whift of exposure per wwrk-
nodules, and (2) the silica (silicon pulmonary dust macules and emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspnea in addition lo dust rom 10 to 46 of Appalachian chitis and coal workers have rorntgeno- lar, graphie evidener of pneu- symptoms, and physical findinge huve bern difinalt to make, worken' pneummeeniosis ("black 5 is not a single disense but a composite uf mnultiple disorders, cach of which and severity, dupendent gruphic aren, exut occupational ex- posure, and apgarent individual sus- ceptilility. : These nultiple dis ordes indude(llthe Fem thy lgann ne - Pw-is M4y a Lnierity Lulle ee * dey a Mrn Besaus. 2 :u die Sargs) I April 10, 1972 . Vol 220. No 2
Unfertunately. there v:as poor
which appear to be mosi closely correlated pubnonale, (a tnu csdeciers ealie font of air 11ULUEN fur parfdles per
with dyspnea. A number of er, Th
with
macules
hronchialitis,(s) erntriluhu- h Jters and eledrie Ine panlolular, and pararicitiicial 3 who drill inte onsive ejer direpve presus 11. ngh a search af appr to make ditfering eits ilou e . authera, ographic festurvs of paumominsis. da turevn to determine s par- fur casen moconivsis with disalilits : in witlunst ayuristed Tu . ee abmormalities Patients Studiod and Methods Jatirnfw.- The paticnts Wwe - n- nr Thiriy-ane had ulwaya minei nf
meconlosis, hut cna relatiuns helween emphysema: und (3) tuierrulusin and n or encountir
such roentgenugrephie ahnormalitics, oinusionally othr di g pnekssrs,
These Srparate epecially in tions to disability. l is the proess Another ain is may vars in inridehre sone workers upon go enigenographic
early
stayes." TheAe difliculties prol of the current
ably arie from the fact that roal individoal stly tn evaliate thcir Le y protoral that lavohed every a AM-
influences na the fuentyen- a ber than a y'rar et age wi man
macul; () oilivurins primarg ennl alust dergruund miners ef hituminuus gnal Cvalet, Keprins P :, - M4- - & 1. a > - nerlg nerit n l'emylania W.
(a) elarumie hnan- frunt Penray haria anrl
ginia, af ssthw eitern ether a hal
Banhvy Sedical C niy 4, nnhunis Siale lew-rank high-rulatil- sa! in raties ir anel uviatinnsl P 4Einl 3 -
Pu
PUBLICATIONS
10346287
