1e0 Eest End Avanue Ncw fork, New York 10028 Telophone (212) C22-6300
American Health Foundation
BOARD OFFICERS CF AND TAUSTEES David J. Mahoney, Chairman President Nortan Simon, Inc. Emest L Wynder, M.D., President Thomas.. Ross, Jr., Sacretary Vice Presiden: Amarican Airlines, inc. Warner G. Cosgrova, Jr. Treasurer Partner Mansse2 Shieics Company Trustecs: Louis > Aronson, = Ronsen Prasident Corporation Mrs. Chares A. Dana Frederie C. Dacker Dacker Presicent Communicationa, Inc. Walter Senior Panner u Hanson Peat, Marwick, Mitchell 4 Ca. George James, M.D. Dean The suney Sinai Schoel of Medicine William J. Levin Chairman o the Soard Levit & Sons, inc. 0. welism Mcore Pres-cent Fielderes: Milis,Ine. Josesh M, Murtha President Sandoran. Murhaa Inc Roban R. Pauley Maxwell M. Rabb Partner Stroock & Stroock & Lavan David Erecutive . Davies. Vice Presidant Javits d Javits General Counsel
July 7, 1970
G. F. Todd, Esq. Tobacco Research Council Glen House, Stag Place London, S.w.1 England
Dear # - Todd:
In recent talks with Dr. Carl G. Baker, Director of the National Cancer Institute, the desirability of forming an international study group concerned with research into tobacco and health problems was discussed. This letter is to invite you on behalf of your organization to participate in this The proceedings will aim at providing the relatively few active investigators in tobacco. and health research programs with an opportunity to discuss freely current and future research prograns with the intent of reaching common objectives nore quickly. The dnozb will be composed of investigators primarily involved in tobacco and health research oriented towards producing less harmful smoking products. The partici- pants must be both willing and able to share with other investigators what is being learned from their current activities and openly discuss plans for future research in the field. It is thought that by bringing such a group of experts together to review ongoing studies and to plan future investigations jointly less harmful tobacco products will be available soorer and costly research projects will not be duplicated unneces- sarily. The meetings would be held at yearly intervals with the different organizations acting as host.
information and study group.
