sa/uls

JAT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
New York Timer Semier

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 08 New Taiwan dollars A
made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even .s recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22

TAIPET The Marlboro cow. dn sales of $119 million. le 1986, trade E between the United New Taiwan dollari E cents) for R
boy is his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Suaics und Taiwan. Wang Chicn. pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghng from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly le shieng. Taiwan' 1 deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis
town. His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered R ing Ss Japan are more liberal. Com-
Tuykrjd-mems jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted give out Iree cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign. Television
This frenetic, fast-growing DA- cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawed in the United States in 1971.
tioe of nearly 20 million people h because both Tawan and Japan school students 12, c! years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
mmoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long- -sanddig restrictions, are now smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry a label that,
year and for the first time, a According lo the Brown & Wil. rette companies promote cigareties roughly translated, says, "For the
rubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? Ic's O.K. to have them sake of healuh, don'i smoke too
made in America, nol Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" - warning much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy 915, billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting 5 $1 billion in new sales. the United Siates. But those people mandaled in the United States.
Wacturers have essentially intro In Japan, which has . population: are just like robbers. A you are A Tbe 'oopaniis say Amencan
ing teen-agers o) tnke dn mokingg, more than 0J percent last year, thing 3uoin with the way they are cigareties are made of biended to-

and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.

panies can advertise on TY after

oul this city, next to posters 2 a peroent.
er of Winston cigarettes.

"They go o1 amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

for most of the growth is American he said recently. "Many scbool- SuspAApp of cigarettes was out-

paonp cigarette advertising 9 the of 120 million and where people,
ialand, and that has created e furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year. E
Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripied E American
tbe American companies of entic the past year. Tbe market share of
The goverumecl-adminissted dicts that il could grow to it 8. 20 sales pitch.
operation that had monopolized percent by 1992.
prenrure from Washingion. In the alcohol
.cign cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw
have soared, generating much- courage its
peadod growth for American man-
laws im way dn

huran being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan
not o1 much because of the adver-
manufactur- tising a because they are of better
quality and Laste beiter. American
and bacco and have less Lar than Tai-
products ther s4y wancse cigarettos, which wr not

cigarette
their

American cigarettes increased to) E vigorously deny there in any-
Department of Agriculture pro- ihry have no plans to change
American pressure to open their have they pusbed sodo so, they say.

charge the American companies
tised, although it does now,

boty deny.

from 3 percent 5 1986, and the promoting

bleoded.

Tbey are not allowed 9 advertise
9 small storea where cigarettes are
a legislator. tions. Cigarette manulacturers may
lo amoke, why zines, cach ol whoec droulation acl-
dom cxooods 200,000.
young Attractive 19-year-old girla oent of tbe market Taiwan A
Suyvan short skirts o1 give dut cit posed strict quotas on foreign
and then it becomos A habit. Il's cigaretter and imposed rtif tariffs.

the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials say tbey resent o0 television or in newapapers. Nor
The government agreed to allow markets to products that éndanger Tbey can advertise only througb
.othrrs into the business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and porien hung near cigarette racks or
year since stiff restrictions oc for. "This really burts our feelings, ! sold, u well a through promo
A American cigarettes a Taiwan N.. ube United Shau-kong Suaes docs not en- also place 120 ada - year in maga-
the Uniled States are way down and females are smoking - loi be Before last yoar, forcign ciga-
and tbe number of anti-smoking causc of American ada. A hire retuos accounted for lcas than - per.
According o1 U.S. Depart- arettes free in nightclube. k's vory cigarettes, banned imports at the
mbet ol Agriculture, people B Tal- difficult lor Sunok boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudees licenued to sell

people

ulacturens at - time when sales in export to LUVANL Younger people

the

immoral."

Aia rerult, imported ciparetine coet