New! Improved! Dangerous?
4RA More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium, Experts Fear Toxic Reactions
e Larancee LESUNER fema 1he Fankayy Pu hend
much hore akium then a band of du a rent enntalaed 300 in 400 mitiigram nf de or course, say Purdur's Wewver, frr pen ple niw setiing eelyy 300 in 400 millppram ofcalcuur daity, the coukd au le un Ad. A a bt e people verral do at only Der 1 Wand emeure 10 yo don drink milk, your cabrium eonse umption le alunt 300 le 400 miliig um a à hr Ryy Thats rule of thumh people H onr With the ccpption oflic noc aud. ds rescarchere agrce that in salcet act tn eat suee ine a thar a 600 milligrams ealcumm daily, regurdhese e virittiun d a erption # Count up, A a un M wer 3 rren snnng h k Woo mny tha st within dh Dui * partimu a a hou . Aui de iith mothur tmdne b ge mee end fur and a teenage son who alreade gete plenty h shoer diet of the an . R food he 4 might bey c kun fur rile ee nu a a cinchfortified mid, cere - and an a but ho auunee milh n au n E an aller fovelall . actice ar ha couple bowe a ocren ae an afeere choct uu could cusily be getting thousands of r Rigram socacchu Wiadd and other rescerchers - agrcy dhat en bent en get youreakien fee amani ety of fodd rather then 000 or two heavil furtified enw and Uua ot kast soure of shoudd come foom a and ocher dairy peod wcte "fiisurigyly.. Woaver explui,, 1e ple 1 have been deficient En endciu hard lee low in AAn u rilollvin. vitamir Y and vitamin D a madaaber in milk, "Dalry wa a kdnd of one aop shupplng ke
A Calcium-Fortiffeed Day 3/4 cp Rotal pared i Luup calccm Hartilid ahi ma pe pa in fertifed Minee Mald erange hule LUNCH 1 e ee han a Swie chovse Wunder Englic - m Nutr--Cialn bar 3ar a chicke bnatt tse APP Semad Cnurtry Crock Phu Calcim - baked potate, tappes wich tbe Sheass Seread Courtry Rach Phe Calokm . h a . pa ap Orenr Calelum Ri vahilie ice cream e 8 w le
A enlcium recommendacion fer teenage le 00E'1 midiigrams: adelts 1o agp sn,
mine ral 2,500 ao 0001 110 350 90 know 300 120 8 272 10/ ISO 130 200 140 1 142 - 26 11 22 2212 10 50 162 000 200 3.304 407 4
o foereal with m anda dase 1.000 milligrams: e adult Slelus, 1.200 milligranss. Bet with the dovens of e orange hnio for herak 64 A en iclum-fortiiidd foods on the merket today, in ease to comsune mor deen widh Sollowed ky a sacc le a the miliigram * Tulerabe Upper Inteke Level set by de Nathaaal Acalnng ef bae altere am M dimen some beefor chick Sclence vvun on diet of only vog'r ralurion. Check rut the hullumig I .
achtime amer adcheese 1 e and - comple of siggusalla topped with morgurine, suwww a a d multivits BREAKFAST min/minecal pill kor nutritional € -uranc. ha while watching AL in the evening a balteup (olay, a cmp) A ke creum, Sound pretty reamon lee ridu? Actually, depending on the brand dantte yuc day pacen conld net AE Ramand -hhese sanderic bween 3000 and 3.000 mulligrans LS cald am + paificantly aore the tee "Pulevable Upper larlake Level" e 2.000 milligram set by the the National Academg et Sedenees a NOONBAL SNACK (NAS). many fooe ure how fortitied with calcumm tha - has beeome mach a de to a0 sy the safety lamit. Ant thee hus ne E DINNER tition resemdeer somcermdd "An whh anything 1 ch be . 1/2 cup hrocccl, tnpped with prublem. sagw Richard od, chict of the Mineral fe Rioavnilabiiity Labemtory ar the Itman Nutrition Research Center al R Univorsity in Boeton. "Th window betwoon oytimal lotade - the upper link de rerr theeyy met . Indeed, the ateqqaae intale EVENING SNACK perryy byy the NASW 1,000 to 1,3 0 mil ligram day. depending an agh Or dr bwice Cest marketod h Gant andSalray) that "yneou and yoe've reached the sadety oeling Hvr mare other estrionts, you'd TOTAL Lave e incroane the e lequnte intake man liee hefore maching risky kyeel What can happen R you tae in toe marh mlcium owe umee? B suyy there have been "on the order of 30 Cu reporta ofcal cum tonkcity, which can maellei c as h lip a pertups ln me A ther haneiion.
E a Bune Metaholiee Lah ut FunL this parkage of nutriest de aotei / a
tho.. dininn and wort thvue cal Mifiaaiie Othen ngre that calefum fortifed foode ag She alw qucatlune the LO0 mil mal R - hnde mone ammee ir yyn e The kidnon made d and: tharue, "moggh be are . resaonatde eption. - favee the como e Negm of caiclum nww - te eve ser d te aet aahhu bet mu mee recrri de . purl iiuaurly wilnemhle." he resmrks, and a fartifictiio, sie Robert Heanyy e und offical ecreal, ARL an , devel ether abbtanees foom endrimm on de Then, ton hypercalcenaas, a toxiclty et Omuha And undle Wond, he's not partie b an reneonted leve. probubly higher Irwin Rosenberg durector of the Nutri the maaandd l caded, can - oy vede Addne ulurty concerned ahowt anyoe a e de owe than imag ucher cadcium fut uiledd lood, tion Jocm arch Coster at Tuta, laparticul durb hhme furmatinn, partieu darbr R people wee boant "There are lots R very 1 thh people Wener ha adrne reservar ions, ton, be monemmed that . l witha hid cone mmr have had astone - the port Ton 1 hach ald whe en same lots mnre than ithe) lie he L - u the quirka in the holy a woyddanng tim ofa single nutrie an will bn people intu a can sbo reduce ahi urpii ef two other daima Some populacion who depend on nr calcium. - vo will abrorb mine calcium i thinllgg the à nourhhhug the ne vves ade e anialminerabc tron and thn the fattrr 4 laredy on dan diet, sach an cowberds se you hare dirkted doms throsghont the day, quadetr. lvm dont get ot the hook of We widch k pecrearyy for wound bealie ln and 5 Alrica and hee Lapps he herd ceideeer F wy Thot's wly pospd who uhe 000 ln prudent dictary cholces because you ve phe o fe setlonigg e the ismune gnten sorthern S linar * lypically p 4,000 millipann worth 2 eukcimm mpplements picef . l hn - wil fartified fodd he While sech problems bave beew rare vote about which food the mineral ondh to A dunda det hscovadablllyyy testing be Totals your bones completedy protected just he ww ne superuarlet sbelves rabes the Bur imtanue. Deer yer is muw tod muket I the the enkcimm in Uhe eereel a ab dennity is * strengahened be axcrdee," he dueet e hei hecoming mere commen, ing le we thet contaion 300 miligramn sorbed a welast the enkcumm immk Per wyy 1 1 weukrned ino litd witamin Not Uhit Wond thinks malchun-fortitied o rallcum pe haleup inatead of & typical every Lo miligramn A ralcium consumed D. which in necessary EE calcium absorp foodrarer had thing 7 think they r cond 100 mittigrar we pue Heanyy - an res a (the amount in ap of mak). the body ab tin and pertaps by t0o much sodjun por i be 4 9 "Avern - ure much 10 mixod fochig on the aec faxd situa sorbs 100 millgg an or ronghly 30 peecent. catictne. Bch w sauuyy wurh le thesh the 2 ae 4 a 20 le 29 yeare cal averup Adde Conele Wenve ouchum lnvestiga Che ahrrrption rate enee doan. Ir you have Te other munda, a Hwn pat a N. onty wbutt 700 millgm une et al clu a day. for at Pardue Ualvernily in Wict Lalayette, Shree te kmr eups a milk In one sitting um h onb ene part ef the pui rdd Jast he wlimn thy shoukl K curtwmming 1,000 mil d Td bato t ace peo a - thecrcise of # cuntains ahune 0o0 milligrnun cuase yon ve ler a how et Total doesn lernn And wnmen 65 1 older, who ting a ds c a ealcium loeat lots dwialies to 15 pereen hout 150 8 moi 5 shoudd he ggdting 1.00 mitligrams, are tak- of au anl lorles Then youre solving ode ligrama, a the ane with the Total Since ing in only about L Uut mouunt in a sim problem whda making anocher ann ipreva ann arrving spplics 1.00 mamiaa yea Bating Riche evdum 1 Laarener hndtr . on the onder of 2 VR . mil Bon Dhw laggen chief of the Calci in other A unla . met uhe bing temibly . in fralth à Nid
um researcher at Creighton University i 2 fortification, ahr & 1 mueens a certainir 1
we had - study s toet bennopausc WOHTE te 00072 milligann ef al am per day pa daly are advinel te wallee their two a00 w m." Wuedd meports Highhcaliim dicte re hewe aabscltely no probiems," be say milligam pille e different nacab,
Jamen Mort. a mineral researcher at Pur
dhend xinc bnta
Phr he and other de hane Fe suogpaAsssu Heany dehomsrraedd the point when he dan priulscat, tue thet ymu don' even hav
wuw, à plethura e cal clun-oortilied Reum addod to, mnc lowe dha ahe recommeedaahess Te . Bhr dlory for men althonnh the threr
prodarer, General Mans, Ce one hand, he caune y re getting 2o of caddum. "Be . But a dh odkcum W - * me Ber w mineral feom the budyy via Lhe urinc. N . + eehr I 100 of then,, leane a Lindee R a . viier Nio thr 7-t
ell the hose
of obealtyl I
