SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE SICK BULLDNNG SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H. complainss associased with the "sick building syndrome
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
a al. (1987) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire. The symptoms were more commoa B buikd.
In a cross-sectional investignionn in * building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validased were measured on e linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system aboo provided cooling and Ar the same time, the micro-environment (environmental humidification. irreppcctive of the *be of the buildings. A characseristics in the breaching zone racher chan area direct relationship berween the level of complaints and air samples) & characserized by measuring temper 'A/U quality parameter was not described. Skov et al. (L961) ex- relacive humidiry, respirable suspended perticulases, car. amined indoor air quality symptoms 9 14 moder 1 bon dioride, noise level, lighaing insensiry, relacive har town halls and 1 older control buildings. A E of i midiry, and airflow. No relarionship a seen berween i was related o1 . "feecing" factor (carpets, upbolsery.. che degree of symptoms and age, educarion, or duration and horizontal surfaces) . & the "macro-molecular I of employmen at the building or aime spent in che build. nent" of dust. They also demonstrated I relationship berween hn on a daily basis. Staristically, complaines were the number of houn wads photocopying and using carbonlew significandyy more frequent among Supyour men. Envi- kduo paper and tbe level of complaints. Other srudies have ronmensal characteristics associased 1 che increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985) complaint levels .s this group included decreased airflow and prychodynamic factor (Row'and et al. 1984) cootribute models, chere a 5 association benween respire ad- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome b i pended particulases and the levels of boch mucoos - suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et brane and syssemic complaints. Sanisfaction 1 * F (1985) were unable to demonstrate 5 measurable dif. thermal environment e predicted by percepaion of dreft ferences is the concentrations of eavironmental pollutants R nor clearty contribuse to the degree of yymptoms, berween rooms ls a mechanically and a naturally veutfleted I regression models PIP 4 t compl 9 building. They studied the rooms with the f were nor independent of thermal parameters. : ing I and used area samples. a et al. (1987) did compl I inserusiry a also associated 1 complaines.. I strate a relationship between symptoms and boch aree - mudies of * - building syndrome should examine ples Saynsesu dust and . "macro-molecular" fraction, -
velociry and increased levelsof respirable suspende par to indoor air quality complaints.
diculases and dry-bulb "amuuuadu a gression
Several studies have artempted to identify the actual
.
- exposures simultaneouslyy and - prycho 9 area samples.
social measures 9 idensify predictors of # -s
Area samples is buildings may Dot be representative of the exposures in different points in a rooms. Physical and shelving may infuence sir currents. Radiane heat may
indoor spaces. INTRODUCTION
characteristics such a windows and
partitions, computers,
Complaines lermed the E building syndrome" have lead oI uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, moet a led oi numerous investigations in the last 15 year.. They au hutants resuh from point sources, or they & be diluted : a thought to occur primarily . newty constructed ocicc 1 subject an farther removed from the source. A micro 4 ing and, at least in the pest, were thought to be * to vironment around desks and I cubicles may have very inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem, . different exposure characteristics than the macro-environ # variety of causes have been identihed .s specife settings, ment of - building. In addition, all applied occupational and inctuding inadequate semperature and relative bumidiry co0- environmental health rescarch that attempts to relate dose to trol, noise, I vibration. volatile organic compounds heakhh effects sufiers from the problem that dose a penerally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, enviroamental sobecco measured at several points in time a then extrapolated to smoke, pesticides, dust. entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decades 1 E contaminated air and boilrr J Bbers released * most heakth effects are measured a a single resuk of from duct linings. and ofice machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sampling A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom et a 1984) pasatins that these complaints were related pri day lo day but from hour to hour. 1 . strategy must fail, (Robertson et al. 1985) was unable to identity difierences le attempted a characterize air-quality parameters .s the micro wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (semper environment and set these characteristics 9 relacion to the ature), relative humidity. air velocity, formaldehyde. or a level of individual complaints a a given point .s I This itive or nepative ions between several rooms . . building report presents resules of a cros-sectional investigation of . with natural and a building with mechanical ventilacion, problem building using a self-ddmiiistered. linear i where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom : - a Amauam Prolesor of Medicine und ol Induscrial and Enviroamental Heahh Sciences at the Unrverstyy of of Medicine Publc Heahh. a I a Director. Environmental Heahh and Salery. Camepie-Mellonn Univeruty, Pirtsburgh. PA.
(Kreiss and Hodpson 1984; Hodgson and Kreiss 1986). marily to mechanical ventilation. The same dnod of suthon
results in preater than the difference in averuge samples, a No investigations in the peer-reviewed literature I
Schoot Peeaburgh
and
