WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRIBUNE D. 25,605 S. 49,326 WACO METEOPOLITAN AREA MAR 9 i9e9
F. Oversteps Authority II Zeal to Guard-. -Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission fron going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it does not scem right or logical that onc medium of advertising be furbidden the producer while newspapers, magazlnes, billboards and e ounter displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expectod to review the FCC proposal and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires Juno 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the worning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC said it ie proposirg to refuse licenses to broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising because of evidence that Suyoous is injurioun to hcalth and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public interest. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals to do as they please 50 long as lhcy don't harm another. Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if you don't mention something, maybe de won't Congressman Paul Rogers, l-lorida Democrat, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Con- merce Committcc,, said in reference to the proposed FCC rulc that the Kouatlu had overstepped the bounds of its authority. le said he doubts that FCC has any right to tell an advertiser what he could not say in his advertisements. Rogers said Congress will take a cluse Icok at the whole question of regulations on television and radio advertising content, nol only as o) the Federal Communications Commission but in regard to Federal Trade Comunission practices as TThe stakes involved extend beyond the business of broadcasting. They o3 to the heart of whe:her government burcaus should he allowed to o3 beyond
advertising.
Hazardous to Your Healt..
hurt you and will disappear.
well. -
tho limits of due proccss and the law.
