by Samuel S. Epstein The auhor surveys the record of di 12 kenerated data kualangg evideme shum € J onstram wn data from glu mandeqa - bissed meerpretation. ma uuurped suppressmm and a le outrighi de- Mtm inn- Ate communipla e esper iall when prohiable tn hnalugirs are mvoeedd. Alarminh snh a iden . Bow juunhes strong resen ation 3s 10 the salddus ef an data developed hh institutons ur inda uluals whune sommm intetess are dur eit ON Informatuo i the u - . of sonumk and pulan al phmer Dhe wn aking at all levels of gm rnment presuppnn v the anlalult ol a beds of in lurmatmon, SBI the han ol hi the relative merits al ahernae poll . au he anah red and Lunsidered 11 ihn ulo m.te e d.n. base is la nshedd or imal dl. shen whaees der ham tra hed auu abebe snpp un mn dal thteatemng the laben el demu The whrlming lalk el all beneht and tisk dat.. Em hu h m . tegulators deu Binns are based. URE Irem ihe muluu ies themneh a bemg egulai 1 Theve dat. are eithet generated and mterpteice
mnne ih alles ted
wuri mnent
Bunh inte this peees I adre ef consulianis, muituees, whese duen ul apprmall pronides thr
In m-lumn wnathhe st.ll # hn commicte à labuta generalh from premigun umn rutes or reseal . bn-luni wenul uall - nol mmmun to una dana wnh an addumma mumie el autherit 1 hr : devekopmen and mu keing dei 3 uments an anh frem the puhlu bu alu fimm ther € una anti lt hun then produm - me e mne @ sur a inauuttm The muduaraal meerests e thew mucs Indunaral Lomila I a mnull Mr anded se. umsuu ate enher new de lnsed tn the agen i uesh hu commnt hal Lalun aten un and unn 4 ISIRE E whine addsim and expen commitices the si.. wnlum Iuls hunng hus lern wn ned e the upen i - div kned a ussall man aained w onhdema mai ket. pia a hardh ennunn wth the ehhnn hee La's len.k at lew ave hnter in 2
tne and unners under un and sal on4 HuH
le mndusui from tesrar h
D
ol dlentue these
consulla.. are ofien hidden new
a
. . 1.Mlu . pnalmm U rage le the awand a future 4 1n mmmu ter umpoken u and I puwlu mie matm E mite wn 1 uh ha d - e the - en thn hnmedd thr ou mng mulu thmgg shont-te m pe unna . = hkeh ln relien en than kuggemm . and alues Sums p - . t df a - del # - 2 Heukk Me . A - - t u 1 a
the held a
Camshaat uI shr Girrraatt - Del a 1he mas mmman proldem wih mndusir..ll gen . erated data i # pw qualus Deeph 1 ened le dd daaa sulumated in 1947 tn she thr madeeuu Admanitt tatem ivc In indusi tath 1 and Dhng a addane In suppum lnnd petitions, sirne Hetles Lev anurplums Almmn hall ol the len addene sEm mngmall sulmmmer le thr I Finul and Due Admmaaratu hne hern inH - 411 . i have p mlequacc supponedd she regula tunhe ples lee and theteen han teqmedd wuhw tepursed
then nmmun
