True-ra lne Questlons en the Chenistry and ;0A000/(AAydo434 Odor end Flevor l H F Sone modern workers suggest that accurate mensurenent of vibratlona! frequency (in the far infrared, for exanple) of hn unknown odorant will permit prediction of its quallty and intenslty. No elenente substance, not even halldes or ozone hes eny odor; Instead they react with the nucose forning new products which are smelled; bur A Sone odorents have steric or vibratlonal propertles which force the concluslon that they are odor less whon they are not. I1. TF Present evldence strongly suggests thot different perts of the olfactory receptor ares, Ilke the retina In the eye, are quailty-specific. T Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor No one yet has a fir clue as to the critical relation between the molecule and the receptor which permits en odor perception, The greater the secretion rate of mucous or sallve, the higher their pH, end both pli and tomperature influence 2 quallty of sensation in the I11. H The ideal Instrumental detector 2 le respond to odors in the sane quantitatlve range ns doon an animal or human subject, 1 L Such an Ideat detector has not been developed. Ihman observors with head In fixed position cen by virtue of the twe Indoponder. nostriis easiiy discern stereo suall effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier hi odorant Is ot the right or left hand, much : one uses his two ears in locating the source of a sound. For certal In musk-like compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger a hunon olfactory response v. - Adaptation to one olfactory qunlity does not significantly reduce sensitivity to any of thr dlssiml lar quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all sinllor quelities. I By enploying a similerities nethod of comparing qualities, one con now obtain Identity and degroes of difference without recourse to troull- vi. - Hunger lowers thresholds slightly 2 some food qunlities but not for It s! now possible to identify the Intensity and quality of a certain given stinull simply by expert examination of the electrophysioiogical record taken fron approprlate odor or taste neurons. Electrical stimulation of taste in nan yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkaline" quality. Direct electrical stlmulatlon of the olfactory sense has never yet beon successfully accompilshed. VIL. 1 Although total anosela is rare In humans and ageusle even rarer, there is evidence that In analogy to color vision deficiences, sone people are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while having normal sensitivity to others. Toplcal anesthetics applled to the tongue show that different quelitles Certaln endocrine dlsease entitles make It possible for sose people quite sensitively to "smell" such "odor less" substances es sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to normal by manipulation of endocrine levels. Premenopausa wonen at the time of ovulation find certain odors extrenely disegreeab le whlle at other rines In the menstrunl cycle these seme odors
sore elements possess taste.
surface ln order to be smelled,
chenicn! senses.
Iv.
sone words. others.
of taste disappear at different rates.
they will judge quite pleasant,
ori
