HKU2223022

Life Sciences Vol. 15. pp. 1291-1300
Printed in the E

Perganon Prese

: OTAROLISM or BPm (A)PYRENE BY KICROSOHES FRON
TISSUES b PRECHANT Aven PETAL KAMSTERE
Irene T. Wang, Ronald E. Rasmunsen, and T. Timothy Crocker*
Cancer Research Institute, Untveraity of California, a Prancieco. and Depart-
ment of Community and mnironneenal Medieine, Univeraity of California, Irvine".
(Received in final form 26 August 1974
Sumarry
Pretreatment of hansters vith benzo (n)pyrene (BaP) grestly increased
the in vitre netaboliam of het by lurg alerosonns fron prognant har
atare, and had I eftect on the metabolien of PAP by 1iver aicre-
momoe. the produetion of varioue metabolites of Rap by lung niere-
sonos wa increaned 9 different axtentas 3-hydrery-BaP (3-CH-BAP
- one 2 the najor matabolitess the metabolic yielde ot 9,10-
dihyurodihydrooyy-Ba (9,10-diol) and 1,8-diol vere incrensed tore
than thae of E 4,5-diol. In the ehee ef 1iver mierosoman, only uhe
yielde of 9,10-dio1 and 7,8-diol were incrensed ovar the eentrel
levels, The presence of cyclohexene oxide Ln the incube tion mix-
tures decreased the production of the diole. Dasal-level eneyme
activitles in placental, fetal 1iver, and fetal akin microsones in
metaholizlee hP vere very low. Pretreatment of pregmant hanatare
vith RaP indaced MaP-netabolizing enaymes 5 fetal tierue 2-3 fold.
Dense (alpyrene (DaP1 le . carcinogen and envirenmental contaninant that in
femd In coal tar. nineral oil, car exhaust, tohacco snoke, moked foode, ete.
(1). In vitro stadiee shoved thae 2 tabolie activation of BaP Le required for
ite intaraction vith proteine and nuclele selde (2,3). Earller studien with
rat liver preparations :4,5) and harater liver microsome (6,7) ahowed that BaP
le metaholized mainyy 8 phenolie and dihydrodihytrooy (diol) derivativee, and
9 quinomes which are enzynatie or air oxidation producte of unstable phenolie
metabolitau (4,5) a vell an mome unidentified n polar metabel ites, the
metabelien ef Rat han generally been nesmured by the production ot 3-hydroxy
Ber (3-OR-RAP) whthh le aften one of the major metalolites Ln vitro (3). 3-OH-
DAP ie toric te euitured celle (9), hut it shove very 11etle interantin vi th
DBA in vitro (6) end has not been shown 3 be carcinogenic. On the other E
K-regton epowides ef velated polycyelie aronatie hylrocartone (PAH)bind to cell-

1291