LOS ANGPLES TI-ES Los Angoles, Californio October 20, 1954 nn been proved.
haver upon the premise that hination n' A partirular tvpe naneetion hetween rica in each nf "he three categories rer smokine and disesse 2 has already produced 'a sale Might Take Six Months one it is. so all can be made Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. I not, the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Carrnce Cook Litte,, complete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad- date, said that "some sav we visnry bnard and seientifie di- tive evidence before develop- try Research Committee, de- ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would nne hae said just what the de produre some nf "the defni. finitive evidence wmud be." live eviderce" to waich Dr He sad he "took issue" with Hammond referred. In his 1alk in the Ameriran "We wiil tackle simultan. system was more important, line of the industry's research migh: prove surcessful in six do not have today Ihe experi- months, "with kuck," he said menta! evidener that will per-
cigarette 16 so. scientific re- search should prove which should fnd one, "since peo- ple like to smoke cigarettes." rector o: the Toharrn seribed the nutlines nl stud- Tackle Unknewns
Calls 'Safe Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming NEW YORK. Ort. 19 ALP)
Expert for
lale 1'niversity statistician
should
wait for more defini
Indus-
this viewnoint.
The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr. eously many of the unknowns arette smoking with bath Hammond said the relation- in this feld of tobacen use in lung cancer and heart dis. ship nf rigare:te smoking to relation to tuman health. à te ease is "overwhelming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We scek definitive once about developing "a safe health. than the relationship findings in an area where cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to much suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find " safe cigarette" from heen done. TTe program nf meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recngnizes tha: re Tobacco Industry Research Inhacen, there are varinus relationship hetween cc ron. Committee ansounced some of types n! fiters, and there are mental factore, includ lins the details nt :t seicatific re- various terhn'ques n! euring The most
Cancer Society today. At the same time the scien- Uie advisory board of the srarch program
Outlines Deseribed There are various types of which i toharen, he Raid, and it may
mit scientific eonci:sions PA. garding the raure And eFerr smokire and lune eancer important prnveet current lung cancer case: in 10 medical centers in :he :ni ed States and Canada,
he thar some fortuntrrss com- Fet up was a dirert scudy 2
901 ANGE LES EXAMINER Los Ange: les, California October 20, 1954
It will include numerous studles of humans, including emotional habits of smokers, an well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. The apecirie research grants, financed by the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTH
ON TOBACCO YORK, Oct. 19--PP A broad ate-point study seek Ing knowledge whether eigarets or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health baz. ards was announced today, It is the first announcement of a big research proxram headed by the selentifie ad- visory board of the Tobacco In. dustry Rese areh Committee
NEW
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
