NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A - campaign to Dade County teenagers away from smoking l under way bere : part of a nation-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. through schools By working and youth groupe, the society hopes 9 persuade a large pro- portion of the nation" in young people that amoking may Jead 8 cancer. Key Arapon In a e A à , le a nlm strip detalling thr rase against tobacen, It hue already i shown le senth grnders in 13 schools 4 educationa! televiaion, and will 1 brnadeant tn minth gradn acience students in : The S enth-grade program, directed by teacher Bill Evans, inchuded a panel discussion 5 which students directed ques. tiona at Dr. Francis N. Cooke, representing the society. . "Teachers I have talked to agree that although amoking la not a serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu. dents a approaching the : when the problem will be, faced," - Evane said: a 1 value A the nimstrips a that I glvee studenta f loglcal argument with whleh I eenld refuse 3 - encouraged by etrele et frienda," 1 edded The him strip la also being ahiwnn - to senior big schools in the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October 9, 1960
Education
L Fag
Youth Habits
Cuts
a
American eigaret gpciing can be reduced w cent through - teenage education program . the high sch ols. These statistics were presenled Saturday b Walter G. James, director of publie educalion for the American Cancer Society, here lor the Florida Division, ACS, annual meeting leenagers as . meana fer - I eneer becsme e a s,4ppe esavietion that smoking - a cause e fstal lung 2 proepects of reducing cigaret mookigg b one-fifth were pbonn ls . pilot program conducted with 27.000 wd achool etudenta e Purtland, Ore, - . d Sbndents i - m nkd wne I a a e Smoking increased in Ohe successive gg school grades. Among boys participating S the Oregon eurvey, 2 sad cent smoked as freshmen. 15. per cent - sopbemores, 31.1 per eent a juniars, a ss : i A correspond Ju figures for girt stodenta were 46 per A 10.6 per cent, or Ihe students. 25 cent a boys mmoeed megularyy at lenst ence - 1 a d : per ent af the girte 4 Education programs againat smoking reduced the number ol I umokers i boys from a cent le 1.7 per cent, and beginning girl mmoker from 4 PROGRAM EFFECTIVE Jamee eid Che ligures projected à four indicaled that 20 per eent P high sehool I could 2 deterred from smoking through a a educational progra - A stody, he i revealed that ? moet affactive approach war in Anyoy a leng term ellect e moting. leaving the decision tn 2 w Least ellective, he related : the mirog ine i Aa part e ib anti-mmaldng education . a ACS has devised a Aim dtrip ihamtr 0 allect habit for rcreening E a school clasaroon
at the Lagu. Mar Hotel I ssid the , cancer. dom u
progra . : directed at
à
spring.
- a iigare pabit:
14. k cent and M. k rent.
per cenl,
per
.
+ -
- # MULLEN C 10022686
