LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday,. March 20, 1977
$1SEL-y-00001
FAP - . * d -To judge by thé torrent A, protésts the SAT received, 'a sizable por- tior of the. calorie-counting public agrees. Long accustomed 6, a cross firg:af criticism from industry and consumer activists, the FDA has beenr bésteged by. citizen demands 9 liber- ate saccharin. And moves are afcot ini" Cangress to" amend the Food: and.: S Drug AcLn huii E k " - 1 3 There 's been P. tremendous. cutcr) from all: aver the country," # EDA sspokeman ls Washington said: "D -ranges trom anguish 6. anger. We' ve. "never been this busy." ( S :hh FDA, for its part: says it a 'only doing what the. law. required. ney clause Congress inserted. in the. Drug Act in 1958 says that: tôbe safe E it la found. - after pas tion of the safetyaaf food additives; E cancer in màn or animal". ancing of risledd bererit. Nar dces it réduire: the: ban- E be: based. a evidence of cancer a hamans!
ue - or L charin:
SERASNE the logic of this I n seem. 6 the: general public, researchers say: that. the- animal A périments upon-which such h-oeemaa rydeciiions are basèd do havë a sen- sbler rationale- andi that. they 4 have addrect.beering on risk to hu- imans. : 2 e *Itis true, resear rehers zcknow iedge; el thittherats 'at the center of this fur- crè consumed eachr day the saccharin equiralent A. reughly "1,000 cans of : lowicalorie soit drinic But they-con- sidèrit misieading-i not dishonast to E the calorie couneil bas, that Suggest. this makes the research trreeevant disparity 8. humans. - T. who drink oniy one can a People P: a saccharin soit drink E id dit. ccmpprrally lower risk of cancer. But- ffn population ai 213 million pecple, collective hazard could still add. ha several thousand cases af blad upto dercanner. socc D.i. scientists note; rat A pert Moreover, eents that. led. the FDA 6 ban
37 ROBEFT GILLETTE Ttmes S lence wrter ADees it maice S nse 8. ban a popular focd adcitive 8 he strength of what a E offsprings eat the additive in hog doses? At thinks not A trade argani- Alanta comes trom manufacturers ot dietary baa foed and drink, spent page newspaper ads.across the coun- E berating tho: F ood and Drug Ad- minisuraiion for its decision 6 ban saccharin. es the oniy" nonnutritive : . a 2 sweetener curre atly cn the market. Javen the K IA is willing 9 admit there's # basie difference between rats and humar ' cne a ad in the. Wall Street Journal: observed. "It's. just anochér a mple of the arbitrary: matrre of big gu remment". ac
& >
happens when hundred rats and." E the law- -specifically the Dela- - Calorie Contral Couneil, Inc, A. - "po (lccd) additive shail be deemed catimn. whose 000'0-s annual budget. which are appropriate for the evaiua- of dallars in the last few days far R-T #iduce ETae clause does.not allaw I bal-
: thousands
-
2 2
7035437
0087432
TIMN
