Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis Roentgenog A 10 and Postmortem Findings
Correlation of
Richard L. Nacye, MD, and Woodrow S.
Dollinger, MS
Coal workers' pneumoconiosis ls not a single disease composite ol multiple disorders, each of which process but a severity from one pationt to another. In bituminous coal, a study of 77 miners of found to correlate roentgenographic well with measurements quantitative. postmorlem anatorii ol (1) the volume of pulmonory dust nodules, and (2) the silica (silicon macules and macules and nodules. dioxide)and collagen content of dust Unfertunately. there was poor recognition of emphysemo and chronic roentgenep/aphic which appear to be most closoly correlated wilh miners with no roentgenographic emphysema, évidence of pneumoconiosis had cor pulmonale, and dyspina in addition lo with silica and collagen, dust macules rem 107 to 4G% of Appalachian chitis and graphie evidenee of pneu- and paraclcatiiclat symptoms, nnd physieal finding have early stages." Theau dificulties ably ari-e from the workers' but a composite uf multiple disorders, each of which and neverity, dependent upon gruphie aren, exort occupat tiunal > posure, and opparent individual sus ceptibility." These multipd dis ordes. indude(l1hhe pr inary cont dust Hanyy Medical c hivt. Penn. -huhis Btate Cniser.ll Lullgg 4 w.. Krpre - - r M.. Crstet, Hle : 2 Itu dbe. 4 I Apral 'or 1972 . Vol 220, No 2
rank, low-volatile cont In Cambrin and rylvanla. Nonc of the men hnd ever d ucted bet ween 1902 und 19-15 ly the Pennsylvanin lepartment of Miner End Mineral Industries skowed ar . verage coal dunt exposure pvr werk- e.tde font of uir fur silica cuntent of cual dant in low in all arenn nf F aekdom belng greater Peenayh itan : However, the mine Jurt coteee.raa :: in of frev nilira In greater for sonie iderground wurkets Puch aA rof Jers and dedrie In omniive et -ra who Jrill inte ailla er. The T7 cascs selerted # te keats d and of en huspital rea evers AU- "y protocul that Invohed . man ruentgen d Irr than an yrara of nge y ine Ji- mauumonnuinsi. 1 tweev 19GU anl 1:his. The - atch with the patini Rirts descriptiuus of the lung Wh. any mentlon of eve dve pi.ement, parenchymal nndul , Ni-e * or any hlstury of minins. the In. ti. nt's clinical chart datn were est.. A € IN as includel in the rtudy unly espusar. crd - In speein. minrs Lad - jwhlidd reisi Irbedda tim - inu wmatin w a. uhtalned . - * Dell 22) 2
may vayy in incidonce and Somerset Countira of eentral l'ann- categories lor pneumoconiosis were enined anthrucite roa!. Survey eon- cor pulmonaic,, lle tnu disorciers ink rhift of 11.40,,0 parif.les per dyspnca. A munber of ern, The free biturinec work-
R
coal workers have roentgeno lur, panlobular, bronchiolitis; (4) erntrilubu such roentgene un phie abnormalitics, onunionally There othrr di ar-e processes,
meconlosia, hut a relatiuns het ween emphysema: und a tuberrulud and n.k or encounter pulveris hearing rand. bern dinicult Lo make, especinlly in appear to make diseering eet ilu - huthera. whn rie s4lonne rAch fhes ly
separate di-epve pricerses 11 rough . search uf lions to disability. h is the pirpase -neral prob of the current sully In evaluate their faet that roal individual inlluences nn the pneumeconiosis ("black ographie features of lung") is not R single disense prores Another aim is muconiunis with disalility esista In may vary in inridence sonie workers Rro enigenographic abnormalities Patlents Studiod and Methods frum Pennyyhania and Wert Vir- rank high-vulatib qual in emaniie Kr unel l'onn Ivania ur in tu: irrmrd ly nesrhy nerth- W.. Vir,in. T1. 1: "aill hnl ether 4i had alway, min d highrr. in PUBLICATIONS
tu determine if paru- fo: casen atarted withent asrurittr tur tlere was
Potirnts.- The palients were 77 un. nr. informatinn wae evan. ted.
macule; (2) ailicuris (1) chrunie liaan derground miners nf hituminuus cnal li anl uther encerning ANT: Fnm the haann ni nf Frt- M4- . lew- Thir:y-one E alwuye mined nf r treagationa
ginia. of sauth estern rtyy. > 2
Pr. -od
10346287
