BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
Area stores
SAT
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For tha Delly Camera nors. kids. ka
referring to the Increased enforce- penally lur selling tobacco to 8 ml- tried to buy une cigaretles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busi. Store clerks unlucky enougb. OF nesses Chis week during 8 crack- get'cuught were issueda summons down on selling cigarettes 8 mi- to appoar uf court. Thc. maximum The sting. conducted on the eve -noris R 00ZS. fine of. the American Cancer Soclety's The Supa involved two tcams. Great American Smokeout, was In- Each included u uniformed oocer. tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain clothes omccer. and two legal to sell tobacco producte to Fairview High School sirts, who Police targeted gas stations, con: girls' parenis signed 1 waiver al- vênience, drug, grocery and dis- lowing them.ooake part the. op Tawhaa neverbenn enforced, said The Juvenlles were told not to Jopinog Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "We're lerting the stores know had S show identification.
y
"count stores. Until recently, the eratlon. thie ie going a happen," shc sald,
the cigarettes. and, if asked, they (Sce BOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors 5 At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, pegan 01 cry, 28uh SL, one of the girls asked when she was iestieg the cashier for a pack of Mart mons. oys caid oho 91m stur boro Lights. Oliee Rob Hauke- juep. and couldn' aforrd tne ness, 5, plain clothes, poons in court costs. HAukeness poin "01 -ine-hhhind her to witnese thç congore hor, saying she could. A placard near the cash regis. the District Attorney to do aro " ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity eçrvice instradoof paying clerk asked tn see some identif- Tne clerka, not the store owTi: cation. Thc buyer produced lier ert or manugers, have to pay the.: she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it 8 .usjund cd at the license, scl i down on stores or clerks," she said. "Al-: the counter, and sold her the though, when you scc clerks cry: Afer they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted -91 stepped Jn and identified him slorcs and clerks a allbur four eelf a3 a police officer. Manka recelved summonses. came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wock's operation was the. Iranm., I see them ask for an year. The fiss sting, conducted. E I think they're going to 2 in September, targeted 16 stores esnt the cale," Haukeness sald. und SI clerks received Rumi
(From Page 1C)
The clerk at Colony Market.
um-
transaction.
prububly work out a deal. with-
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, driver's license, which showed court costs.
eigarettes. summons.
ing, you miggh think otherwise. secund tobacco sale stine sSI
"Bul they never do."
monges.
