L/S8
Peptide Hormones. Growth Factors. and Soma H (ed): Placenta: Basic Research for Clinical Applicanoo.. Int. Conf. on Placenia Tokyo. "0661 Basel. Karger. 1991, pp 105-114 Isolation of a Xenobiotic Metabolizing Cytochrome P-450 (P-450sok) with No Aromatase Activity from Placental Microsomes of Both Cigarette-Smoking and Yoshio Osawa, Tadayoshi Higashiyama. Kenji Shimizu'. Endocrine Biochemistry Deparment.. Medical Foundauoo of Buffalo Rescarch Insutute. Buffalo. N.Y., USA
Placental Proteins
2
Nonsmoking Mothers Nobutaka Yoshida'
- COPY FILE
The presence of different monooxygenase activities has been docu- mented in human placental microsomes. The predominating cytochrome P- 450, that of androgen aromatase, catalyzes the biosynthesis of estrogens (1). Aromatase P-450 has been tbe object of numerous studies to determine its mechanism of action and to purify it (2, 3). Gough et al. [4) reported the presence of another enryme system which catalyzes the hydroxylation of xenobiotic substances. It has also been reported that a placental cytochrome P-450 is responsible for the hydroxylation of benzola)pyrene via aryl hydro carbon hydroxylase (5-7). The low content of the responding cytochrome P. 450 in human placenta and instability during purification have made it difiiull to isolate any other active P-450 enzyme. As a side benefi gained from our procedure to purify and characterize catalytically active aromatase P-450 (3), we found a fraction from the immunoafiinity chromatography which showed a high level of xenobiotic activity with little contaminating aromatase activity. Through the use of conventionall purifcation procedures. we obunined a xenobiotically active P-450 with no aromatase activity: Previous studies on aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity have demon- strated higher levels of this activity in smokers but not in nonsmokers (8, 9). 'Postdoctoral Research Fellows oD leave from tbe Department of Obsteincs and
Gynecology, Okayama Univernity Medical Scnool. Okayams. Japan
PUBLICATIONS
028242
