HKB2228112
LAST BARBAR :
ULE 5

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIECO

Le 2 2

in w a 1
ISPARTME / : PAD
January 3, 1977
Dr. William H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Rescarch roundation
715 Kuir Lands Vista Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. rishman:
and Salk.

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of Lhe La Jolla rescarch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes
should fit in well with ongoing activities noi only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnment of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental
prublems is particularly ieely. It will be 0! grat potential importance for
pulling tegetter work by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation.
characteriztaion and dotorninatiio of the sienificance of huran oncodevelcpmentaal
antigens such as alphafetoprotein and Carcinoesbryonic entigens.
One of the goals of the work in our laborator is to determine the relationship
of increased serui concentrations of AFP to preralignant lesions or carcinopen
exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systors clearly derion-
strate tnet anirals exposed to hepatocarcinogens have eleva ated serum ArP concen-
trations prior to developrant of mslignant tumers. It is hoped that systeretic
study of hunan scra frut differert aources vill determing if serus AFr concun-
In addition, the role of environmental factors such as hormonal influences on
the production of oncodevelopmesta gene pr.-k.. can be further explored in
different sy: Lems Such data inplies Lhal (he prod;u tion of oic ocave elopmental
gene product, by tunor cells is net a fixed property of a given tumor but is
We look foncard to vorking with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the important subjert of oncudeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatoc.rrcinoge exposure

subject to environmental controls.

express ion.
Best regards,
Stewart Sell, H.D.
Professor
SS/nb