NEW-YORK-POST, FRIDAY, MAY- 17.1996. NEWWORKPPOS Asceviaa older conriononsly pxoristed aisity mewspuper
Anti-smoking skulduggery smoking poses no danger to human Scruggs insists he 1,uppP "buy" any doc- health En about to testify on behalf of the uments. Perhaps not. But unless he has tobacco industry. Suddenly it's revealed enterod the bankcing business, it is un- tobacco lawyers. It also emerges that from the liams with such substantial "loans." same lawyers have bought the re Moreover, how are rensonable people to scarcher a house and have co-signed two interpret Williams "salary" car loans for him. In his defense, the 8 This is not the first time Scruggs has entist insists that, except for the salary, been involved with a subsidized whistle- Question: How would the media likely Brown & Williamson executive Jeffrey react? A huge brouhaha to say the Wigand. CBS Newe promised d pay the The scientist's research, whatever its Williamson pons Wigand for breaching actual merits, would be buried under a his contract's confidentiality clause dur. mudslide of derision. The tobacco indus- ing a widely reported appearance on 09, e, grounds for attempting s buy a wit- CBS lawyers, fearing that the offer to Now let's change a few details. Say the preted as an inducement to break the scientist is a "whisticblower" who asserts contract, initially scotched the segment. that the tobacco industry la fully aware After the substance of Wigand's charges that cigarette smoking is lethal and has hit the newspapers, his interview was The lawyers providing the salury and Meanwhile, the anti-tobacco forces also "loans, rather than working for the to- suffored 'an embarrassment when a for- bacco industry, are E" fact spearheading mer Philip Morris cmployee recanted tes There you have the chain of events that. Drug Administration (FDA). actually unfolded recently in a Louisville, Jerome Rivers, a former Yet the near-silence sur- supervisor for the conglomerate, manufacturing with- rounding the incident has been deafen- drew his claim that Philip Morris rou- run the story on Page One, reported that "evidence" to justify regulating tobacco as a law firm representing Brown 2 Wil- Critics incessantly portray the rewards. mortgage Williams and other financial "crime" consists in selling a legal prod-
Imagine this scenario: A scientist who that he ls secretly receiving a salary
claims to have discovered that cigarette leading opponents.
clear why Scruggs pmom provide Wil- blower: He also represented former latter's legal fees in the event Brown & pay Wigand's legal costa could be inter-
it's all just a loan. least. ness.
S would be roundly condemned on ethi- Minutes."
worked S conceal this fact for decades. eventually aired.
the campaign against it. courtroom. Ky., Today, one of the few "nSS liamson Tobacco $109,000 neys suing the tobacco companies. His benefactor was Scruggs one of the tobacco lawyer
timony he had given 93 the Food and tinely measures and adjusts nicotine lev- (The FDA hoped to use this tobacco Americans d enjoy. when the shenanigans, is clear that subject of ethics comes up, some of tobacco's foes would do well 8: industry's take a careful look in the mirror.
els. papers to
Merrell Williams, a former paralegal for a drug.) corporate documents available to attor- After these
Corp., received a industry as amoral, even though ita had made internal uct that millions of
Richard
