14A- Contra Costa Times

Sunday, October 6 1991

EDITORIALS

cou

Curbing tobacco use
Patchwork of local laws spread public call for govermment action?
no way to fight smoking writing their owm smoking ruies l that
county and city anti-smoking or- smoking in restaurants as of May 11 that
dinances like the ones adopted by means peopie who like to smoke while
the Contra Costa and Alameda County dining will simply go 02 the next town to
Certainly, evidence of the many dan- not comply with the current rule, which
gers of smoking is overwhelming. Tobac- requires restaurants to reduce smoking
co ls the leading preventable cause of sections to 25 percent or less of available
death, killing more Americans than all seating. How many more will close when
other drugs, AIDS, murder, suicide and smoking is banned altogether?
threat to fetuses and a significant con- less restrictive. But it still creates rules .s
tributor to a host of diseases. Even sec- unincorporated areas of the county that
ond-hand smoke threatens non-smokers. treat businesses differendy from those in
But as evidence about the threat of most of the cities and towns.
sponding increase in public and private Alameda counties have taken aim at
reaction against tobacco, making govern vending machines, banning them in ar-
The fact is that fewer and fewer peo- county has made allowances fon-ma-
ple are smoking or putting up with smok- chines using technology thateaa prevent
ers. Businesses have responded by creat- them from being operated by minors.
ing separate smoking sections in offices, Efforts to prevent childrep from.buy.
Many private businesses have bannied otficials should better accommodate the
smoking in work areas. Smoking bans latest technology and thereby lessen
haye long been in place in theaters, ele- the financial impact on vendors.
And the trend is to further restrict and non-smoking diners. There is no rea-
smoking in areas open to the public a son for local governments 8 interfere
Businesses are well aware of the public working against smoking.
Why, then, should county and city es, treat everyone on an equal basis and
governments feel obligated oi compose protect people from unwanted second-
restrictive smoking ordinances of their hand smoke make far more sense than a
own, particularly when there is no wide- patchwork quilt of local ordinances.

The problem with cities and counties
they create inequities and confusion.
For example, Wainut Creek will ban,
eat. Already, one restaurant in that city
has been forced to close because it could

o we really need a patchwork of
supervisors and the city of Walnut

Creek?

car accidents combined It also ls a
smoking mounts. there has been a corre-
ment intervention less urgent.

The new Contra Costa ordinance is
To.their credit, boch Contra Costa and
eas accessible 0! minors. But neither
ing cigarettes ere admirable. Buf public
Also, smoking ordinances should al-
low restaurants to cater 9 both smoking
with market forces that already are
Statewide smoking laws that accom-
modate legitimate interests of business-

restaurants and other public areas.
vators, auditoriums and other en-
protect people from tobacco smoke.
concem about second-hand smoke and
have acted accordingly.

closed places.