May 16 * MAY. 91 1996
8:44
P.11
Chicago Tribune
Philip Morris, UST offer plan to curb
tobacco
teen use of
Proposal would prohibit FDA regulation, ban 'loosies' and vending machine salès
By Barbara Sulliva STAFF WATER TRIBUEE Philip 'Morris Cos. and UST Inc. om) Jo the largest, 000r99 companies. went on the ouen- sive Wednesday, proposing sweeping legislation to curb teen tobacco use. The proposals, which would include a ban on vending machine and single-cigarette ialls pue impose curbs on advertising. go further than restrictions sought by the Food aand Drug Administration, the companies said. The quid pro quo, however. le that the FDA be prohibited from any regulation of tobacco prod- ucts. "It there's FDA involvement. the dea) is not on the table," said Ellen Merio, Philip Morris USA senior vice president corporate alTairs. are not meant as a compromise, and restricting tobacco usage. this is a solution." beneficial.
3/1
an . 12a
a P phoso
of Steve Parris.. a Philip Morris Cos. senior vice president, at a which have not yet received would include a $250 million however. saw the tobacco pro- "They reautze that the FDA is most ser ious about protecting others. sl the tobacco industry). and they Ser CIGARETITS. PACE 2
Merlo also said the proposals news conference Wednesday. or frst step toward rapproche- pany and UST is the biggest mnnn.. with the government's maker of snuff and chewing mounting push toward regulating tobacco. The two companies. "This goes way beyond a com- support from other tobacco promise." Merlo said. "We think companies, said their proposal Merlo said further that the industry fund spent over a five- proposals are so comprehensive year period to help implement that unilateral action by Philip the legislation. Morris- and UST would not be Some anti-smoking advocates, "We couldn't implement these posals as nothing more than a actions on our own. withoit leg. blatant smoke screen to keep islation." she said. "tf only one the FDA out of the picture. Phiipp Morris. maker of Marl- kids from the blandishments (of
or OMI companies participated. there would be no impact." boro cigarettes anong the world's biggest tobacco com
