Carcinogenesis vul 15 mu 13 re a 2725 1924
arcinogens met
chemopreventive agents

Jung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke
benzola)pyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of

osan

and

C3 420

Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin
Amencan Heelih Foundarien. Valhalla. NY 10595. USA
by 4-(methylnitrosamino)

models examined o) date (2). BaP is a protorype of the class
of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco
smoke (1) We have chosen the A/ mouse because previous

The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce
model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced
lung cancer In smokers. Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantinied and their progression to
and benzola)pyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated.
individually or in combination. Groups of Cemale A/J mice Ci evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg
were treated by either intragastric gavage (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of
Intraperitoneal injection (l.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP,
and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and - dimehhylbenriolanhhrce (9.10).
either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the AJJ mouse ol evaluate the effects of
forestomach were counted. The i.g. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung lumor induction by NNK
proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4,1 1,12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse can be replicated
because il avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems. For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate
the Injection site and associated mortality A dose - response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung turno induction by
relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 ral (11,13).
mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single
treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect to tobacco
of 24 jumol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which concains at least 40 carcinogens (I). The
have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important
Comparisons of NNK and BaP given Individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (11.
when giv en by the i.g. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either
were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP.
The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to
evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during
dose of 24 pmol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and
subdoses i.g. with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we exomined tumor yields obtained
dosing. This regimen induced 10.5 24.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for
mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61
ethyt isothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure aI This tumor model was employed in a
and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC
tumor formation. reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP.
efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. Rt purity wat established l4 HPLC as >997. BaP (93% purity),
Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were
could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirt containing s comn gil. as prev vously, 2
play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups of 15 as sammarized la Table 1. At age 7 weeks. each mouse was
kers: (methylnitrosamino) 3-pyridyl). l-butanone (NNK") treaced à imraperitoneal (ip.) injection or by intragastric gavage lig) with
and benzolalpyrene (BaP) e NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical in 0. ml cononseed oil. NNK and BaP were bou
carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung ln all rodent dissolved in the ol ml used for treatment Injections and gavages were carrin
Abbrevlations: NNK. 4-(meshy! Anitrosamino) pyrldy -butunane: individuat dese was one-eighth of the cotal. Equimolar doses of NNK a A
BaP, benzolo)pyrene: PEITC, phencihyl isethiocya anale: BITC, benzyl BaP were used in most of the combination groups, because the amounts of

ridyl)- l-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined

which these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given

The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively

of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the
that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK

Most previous studies in the A/ mouse have examined
We sought o) develop a model which could be used to

5.9 # 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P v 0.001) and completely
this study provide a convenlent model for assessing the
inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.

inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods

NNK wad synthesized in the American Health Foundacion Organic Synchesis
BITC 586) purity) and PEITC (93% (Aynd were obtained from the Aldrich
Chemical Cempany (Milwaukee. wi). Cottonseed oll was purchased from
Fermale AJ mice. age 5 weeks. were obcoined from The Jackson Kaovuroge
(Bar Harbor. ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the
The desiga of the bioassay in illustrated a Figure 1. Thr mice were divided
out for 8 consecutive weeks. The toral doses aue given s Table L Faa
NNK and total carcinogenie polycyelic hydrocarbons in sobacco smoke are

Sigma Chemical Co. (Si Louis, MO).
described (4).

Introduction
to

agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought

isothipe rate. "d Intraperitoncal, : introgastric gavage.

o Oxford Unveniiy Press

2721