44
s/u/Ps
JHT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira New York Timer Servr
wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars . made cigarettes last year, ringing became an issue even in recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22
TAIPEI I The Mariboro cow. up sales of $119 million. ln '9861 trade E between the United New Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for . boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Suaics und Taiwan. Wang Chien. pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghng from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes Dow hold nearly 81 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigaretee advertis sown, His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered A ing Ss Japan arc more liberal. Com- This frenetic, fast-growing DA- cigarette exports last year, primari teachers told me that junior high lawed ia the United Suaee in 1971. tioe of nearly 20 million people A because both Tawan and Japan school students I 12, 13 years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- Adnooo joy . $16 billion trade surplus with than the health- -warning labels brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $i billion in new sales. the United States. But those people mandaied in the United States. Waccurers have essentially intro le Japan, which hes - population are just like robbere. If you are A Tbe 'oopaniis say Amencan
and dod-pus-wou stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest. guitar-playing pep-sural promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted
panies can advertise on TV after
oul this city, next to posters 2 - peroeni. of Winston cigarettes. mmoked 34 billion year - and for the doprrtii time, - rubstantial number of chem were liamsoo made 9 America, nol Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to paonp cigarette advertising to the smoke 300 billion ialand, and that has created a furor. Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled tbe American ing teen-agers o) inke dn mokingg more than 10 percent last boly deny. operation that hnd monopolized percent by 1992. prenrure from W ashingoon. In the alcohol. 8 cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw ufacturens at . time when sales in laws = way up.
"They amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting out cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign Television
er
for
ooc
most of the growrh in American ia said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out- last dropped long-suandiog restrictions. - are now smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry label that, 8 the Brown & Wil rette companies promote cigarettes roughly translated, says, "For the
Corp. exporta of like that? Ic's of 120 million and where people a cigarettes year. ir that. American uhe past year. The market share & $
have O.K. 8 them
sake & health, don't smoke Loo the whole markets. We en mucb" - - warning much milder "ur - huran being, you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan not KO much because of the adver. tising as because they are of better there in any- quality and Laste beiter. American thing 3uoi with Kam way they are digareties are made of blended to- wancse cigarettos,
Accordrrodae
cigarette manufactur- They are not allowed 9 advertise 9 small stores where cigarettes are tions. Cigarette manulacturers may dom cxooods 200,000. Bdoore last year, foreign € pirl oent of tbe market Taiwan
companies of entic American cigarettes increased to 3 vigorously - The goverumecl-adminissted dicts that it could grow to 15 S 20 sales pitch.
* charge a American companies from L percent l 1986, the promoting their products and s bacco and have less which Lar than Tai-
are not
Department of Agriculture ood ihry have no plans to change ther blended. American pressure 5E open their have they pusbed a do so, they say.
€ cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials tbey resent 00 television or in newapapers. Nor The government agreed to allow markets to producta Chat éndanger They can advertise only through others into tbe business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and posien hung near cigaretie racks or year since stiff restrictions oe for. "This really burts our feelings, sold, a well a through promo A American cigarettes UT Taiwan M.. tbe United Shau-kong Suses does legislator. not en jaloo place 120 E - year in maga have soared, generating much- courage its people to smoke, why zines, cach ol whoec droulation acl- and tbe number ol anti-imoking causc of American ada. They bire retuo accounted for lcas than - According to U.S. Depart- arettes free in nightclube. k's 3 digarettes, banned imports at mbott ol Agriculture, people B Tal- difficult lor Sunok boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenued to sell
tised, altbough it does now.
a
peadod growth for American man- expori to Taiwan? Younger the Unitod States are way down and females are smoking .
Cor plo-maa-6
young attractive immonu. .
ke fors
the
wearing short skirts 8. give 2 cit posed strict quotas 8 and then it becomes A habit. Il's cigaretter and imposed stim tariffs.
Aia rerult, imported ciparetim coet
