LOS ANGPLES TI-ES Los Angoles, California October 20, 1954 E been proved. lale
haver uudn the premise that hination n' A partirular tvpe a nnection between riea in each of the three categories ret smoking and disesse 2 has alrcady produced a sale Might Take Six Months one 1 is. so all can be made Dr. E. Cuyler Hammond. that way. Ifnot. the research who was in charge ol the most Dr. Carence Cook T.tte., complete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ar- date, said that "some say we visnrv bnard and scient fie di. tive evidence before develop try Rescarch Committee. de- ing a safe cigurette, but no ies which he helieves would nne has said just what the de prndure some nf thh defni finitive es idence waudd be." iive evidence" tn waich Dr He sndd he "took issue with Hammond referred. In his 1alk in the Ameriran "We wiil lackle
J1. S cigarette. scientific re- search should prove which should fnd one, "since peo- ple like to smoke cigarettes." rector o the Tonarro Indus- seribed uhe outlines nf stgd- Tackle Unknewns
Calls Safe Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming
Expert for
L'niversity atatistician should wait for
more defini
NEW YORK. Ort. 61 ALP) this viewnoint.
The rvidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eously many of the unknowns simultan- arette smoking with hoth Hammond said the relation- le this feld of tobacen 1se us lung cancer and heart dis. ship of rigarette smoking to relation to human health. A ease is "overw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitive once about developing "a safe health, than the relationship findings in an area where cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer 1 program to much suggesaive work has cal scientist told the annual find " safe eigarette from been done. TTe program of meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recngnizes tha: we Tobacco Industrv Research tnhacen, there are varinus relationship hetween rc rom. Cummittee ansounced some oftypes of fiterr, and there are mental factore, includine the details nt Ltk seieatific re varioux terhn'ques 2 curing The most important
system was more important, line of the industrv's research migh: prove surcessful in 3ix do not have today Ihe experi- months, wirh kuck," he said menta! evidence that 1 ner-
Cancer Society today. At the same time the scien- tie advisory board of the srarch program 14 d ch is he thar
Outlines Deseribed There are various types C tobacen, he sair, and in may some fortuntrrss com- 901 ANGELES EXAMINER los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
mit scientific eoncissions PA. garding the and eFerr rause smokire and lune cancer prnceet Fet un was a diree: udy a current lung cancer caset J 10 medical centers in :he - . ed States and Canada,
It will Include numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokers, an well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. The apecirie research grants, financed Aq the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTHSTUUDY ON TOBACCO YORK, Oct. 19. € < broad sbx point study seek Ing kmowwldgg whether eigarets or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards wAs announced today, It is the first announcement of a big research program headed Aq the selentifie ad. visory board of the Tobacco In dustry Rese reh Committee
NEW
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
