Polluted Data
bx SamuelS. Epstein The auhor survevs the record of industri-generated data kualangg u alem . shum 2 constram un date- frem Klus webaprr - bissed meerpretation. ma mpplatmm. suppressmm and - le nutright de- Mtm mn -ate commompla e esper ially when prohtable in hnalugirs are mohed Alarmngh.. sah C idem e Dhw juunhes strong reservations 3s 01 the saladu of an data developed hh institumons oT indn uluab whune eummm intetests are duecth or Informatnm a the (unen of a onumk and polan. al pmerr Decnam-mmaamg at all levek ol gm. etument sasukmmaadd the an alaauity of a buds of in lurmatmon, SHI the han ol w hik h the relative merits ol ahernae pesln 9 an ) € red and unsadered 11 thn ulo m.te el dat. base is 3 nnsed or imal dl. then whatevr de hau ate trau hed aau alsbe unpet u maaal. thteatemng the laban ol denue The u a whr hmang lalk ul all benchi and usk duta. WNI whn h nun regulator der ision are based. ume Irem ihe muluu IES themnehes bemg segulat. ed Theve data ate eithe generated and mier pteted hne and BnnCIS under cO a le mddsst * wa and sul on4 presuures
mnne ih aller ted
ALJt wnn rimmmn
à - due :
Bunh inte thm pieess I atadre of consulranss, muiiuues,, whese duen nl appr.n al pren ides the h idenutes ol these consulla.. ate ofien hidden net
In m-lumn 4 anuth stall U hn cemmett ut lalana generall from presigums unneruness or reseanh bn-lum wiemut sall an nol mmmune to anh dana wnh an addummal manie el auther in Thr and desekapment and markeung departments. ans unh frem the publu bun alu from ther nwn una - ani le huns then produm a pam e mne AM sit a insututmm The muduuraa mieresss ef thew meie Indusmu amm in a e mnull aw anded s umsuu ate enhet ne disimed te thr agene ies unhh lu ummm - 3 Lalun atuties and unn ers an 15 hum adur and expen cummitices thes si.. wnlumu 1 hun mng his lern ao ned e the upen in u de hm d Ji ussall mamt. paur m combdenu umila In t 4 ne mmmun tar unpoken pteame Camttramt I1 thr Genrtaauu e Dhle and I puwlum mie matu un mner preaatmm Ihe mas umu proldem wnh industrull gen. umnsinm hnhh wh. ae prnened a the muttess el etated data a a Jmn ppalas Deeph mn enedd In mulunn even thagg thi hnmedd thr mareequ d dan sulumatedd in 1917 ln she peteepuom : mete hkeh le relien sher ir m tath linl and Ihug Admanitt atson (EDA) hn mduun Sume - hp . hr der d i upatremall anden pamme lewed addene pettan at ggmall suhmmmed le thr
wur
from ieseare
mnsten wahh ehhnn the
at . lew ane hnser in diav n fi.m the held ol IX uputmmall ann ensremmental san e
market. J pia IR . haidh ofcompenne aapallis thr rFi mng
hee La's len.k
Ihe un a tes rager le the a ul futur en than he K 1E : mnere 7 and salues hul 1 -hr a de E a 2 Heukk wnrhuh u m Foud and su Meduu a 14 Ann Lhe 2 - sue lu Fu He ali pahin hn 1m l dimtmnndingg hn paduu It.
In uunden a lnn addene petitimn then (nmmu sione Heskn Lev omplamed Alunn hall a the Admmuaa.at hae hern mn : plee i have m allqpuael pawedde she regula and thr arfes hane
- Dung tunh lie teparsed
.
wuh teqmed
