WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRIBUNE
D. 25,605
S 49,326
WACO METROPOLITAN AREA
MAR 9 i9e9

FC Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard-. Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission fron going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it
does not scem right or logical that ono medium of
advertising be furbidden the producer a hile
newspapers, magazines, billboards and ou nter
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
Juno 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC said 11 is proposirg to refuse licenses
o) broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising
because of evidence that smoking is injurioun tn hcalth
and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public
intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals to do
as they please s0 long as lhcy don't harm ancther.
le also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that if noc don't mention something. maybe it won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democrat, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com-
merce Committce, said in reference to the proposed
FCC rulc that the ngency had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. le said he doubts that FCC has
any right o) tell an advertiser what he could not
say in his advertisements, Rogers said Congress will
take a cluse Icok at the whole question of regulations
on television and radio advortising content, nol only
as to the Federal Communications Commission but
in regard to Federal Trade Comunission praclices as
The stakes involved extend beyond the business
of broadcasting. They go to the heart of whe:her
government burcaus should he allowed to go beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Healh..

hurt you and will disappear.

well.
3

tho limits of due proccss and the law.