True-Taise Questlons en the Chenistry and Psychophyslologyy of Odor end Flevor
1. T. Sone modern workers suggest that accurate neasurenent of vibrationa!
frequency (in the far infrared, for exenple) of an unknown odorant
will permit prediction of its quailty and intensity.
. No elenental substance, not even halldes or ozone hos eny odor; Instead
they react with the nucose forning new products which are smel lled; but
T Sone odorants have steric or vibrational propertles which force the
cone luslon that they are odor less whon they are not.
Present evldence strongly suggests thot different parts of the ol lactory
receptor ares, Ikke the retina In the eye, are que ilty-specific.
- Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor
T. No one yet has a firm clue as to the critical relation between the
molecule 0nd the receptor which pernits en odor perceptlon.
1 The greater the secretion rate of muco . . or selive, the hl gher their 'nd
and both phi and tomperature influence the quallty of sensation in the
111. - The ideal Instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sane
quantitative range as does an en Ima or human subject.
TF Such en Ideal detector hes not been developed.
Iv. 1 e Ihman observers with head In fixed position can by virtue of the two
Indopondent nostriis easiiy discern stereo snoll effects, 1.e. they
can tell whetier hn odoront ls ot the right or left hand, vuch as one
uses his twe cars in locating the source of a sound.
- For certaln musk-like compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to
trigger 4 hunon olfact ory response.
Adaptation to on0 olfactory qun Iity does not significant ly reduce
sensitivity to any other dlssiel lar quality, but does reduce sensi-
tivity to all sinllor quelities.
I By enploying a simlierities nethod of compering quelities, one can now
obtain Ident Ity and degroes of difference without recour se to trohlo-
vi. I Hunger lowers thresholds slightly to some food quniit ies but not for
- ir le now possible to identify the Intensity and quality of a certain
given stinull sieply by expert examination of the electrophysioiogical
record taken from appropriate odoo or taste neur ons.
T Electrical stimulatlon of taste in nan yields only reports of "sour"
and a "metallic" or "alkalind" quality.
TF Direct electrical stlmulatlon of the olfactory senso han nover yet beon
successfully eccompilshed.
ViL. TF Although total anosela is rare In humans and egeusia even rarer, there
is evidence that In analogy to color vision deficiences, some people
are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities whi le having normal
sensitivlty to others.
TF Topical anesthetics applled to the tongue shew that different quelitles
1F Certaln endocrine dlseese entitles nake : possible for sone people
quire sensitively to "ssell" such "odor less' substances es sucrose or
sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be
reduced to normal by manipulation of endocrine levels.
TE 4 enenopausel wonen at the Iime of ovulation find certain odors extrene ly
disegreeable whlle at other tines In the menstrual cycle these seme odon

sone elenents possess taste.

I1.

sur. face In order to be see led.

chemice! senses.

v.

see words.
others.

of taste di sappear : different rates.

they will Judge quite pleasant,

ori