- I Dls Vol. 38. No. 1. PP 17-26 1985 Priased in Great Britain. All rights reserved
0021-9681 85 $).00 0.00 Copyright C 198 Pergamon Press Lid
PSYCHOSOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ADOLESCENT SMOKERS BEFORE THEY STARTED SMOKING: EVIDENCE OF SELF-SELECTION A PROSPECTIVE STUDY CARL C. SELTZER and FRANK w. OECHSLI Peabody Muscum. Harvard University Cambridge. MA 02138 and the Child Health and Development Studics, School of Public Health. University of California. Berkckey.
CA 94720, U.S.A. (Recvired in rerised form 17 dagust 1984)
Abstract -Evidence of noncomparability of self-formed smoker and nonsmoker groups of adolescents from the Child Health and Development Studies of the University of Califomia, Berkeley. was found in - study of antecedent psychosocial characteristics (observed at age 101 before the adoption of the smoking habit. With possible confounding factors controlled, eventual smokers showed significantly greater prevalence than nonsmokers of Type A personality traits. eutraveriion. psychoticism. anger. and restless sleep. Eventual smokers were lower in socio- economic status than nonsmokers. and also exhibited significantly lower mean scores for the Raven Progressive Matrices and Peabody Picture Vocabulary tests For each trait. the trends of the data were consistent in boys and girls Since many of these traits are shown 9 "track into adult lile, where they are then related l coronary hear discase. the role of self-sclection requires further consideration in causal inferences about smoking und coronary heart discase.
INTRODUCTION
IN RECENT years. many published studies have shown an association that suggests a role for psychosocial factors in the pathogenesis of CHD [I. 2] In the Framingham Study. univariate and multivariate anulyses showed a positive relationship of certain psycho- social factors to CHD and also to cigurette smoking (3-5). The pervasive question of temporal precedence and a priori self-sclection still requires further clarification, however. In the absence of controlled experiments. the effects of cigarette smoking on health have been inferred from observational studies that compare persons who smoke with nonsmokers. la these comparisons. the disease outcomes are assumed to occur in cohorts of smokers and nonsmokers who were initially similar in all relevant characteristics except for the difference in smoking habit. Very little evidence has been available. however. to The unique data of the Child Health and Development Studies (CHDS) of the University of Califomia. Berkeley. provide an opportunity o) check this assumption by examining antecedent characteristics associated with teenage smoking [6-8]. The CHDS is a prospective investigation of children from birth to late adolescence. At various stages of their development, the children were examined as o1 their biological, social. and In this report. we have analyzed the antecedent psychosocial characteristics of a large cohort of boys and girls before some of them later began cigarette smoking as teenugers Reprint requests should be addressed to: Frank w. Oechsli, Child Health and Development Studies, This project was supported de Grant 1447 from the Peahody Museum. Harvard Lniversity
-
verify this assumption.
personality status. as well as environmental and familial influences.
2131 University Ave. Berkelev, CA 94704, U.S.A.
B 30/1-
D
