BOULDER DAILY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

a

Area stores

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For the Delly Camera
nors.
kids.
kar

referring to the Increased enforce.
were issued a summons-
pènally Tur selling tobacco to. a m
pau; to aillAAng cigaretles. The

mont.

Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky enougb.to
doum on selling cigarettes o) ml- padpanyyd appoar ut court. The. maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve noris B 00ZS. fine
of the American Cancer Soclety's Tho Supa involved two tcams.
Great American Smokeout. was In- Each included u uniformed oocer.
tended to educate clerks that it's il- a piain çlothes omcer.. and two
legal to sell tobacco producte to Fairviow High Schoolgiris,, who
Police targeted Ras stations, con Kirls" parenis signed a waiver al-
vënience, drug, grocery and dis- lowing them to Take part ut the.op:
"law has neverbeen enforced, said The Juvenlles ware told not to
Boulder Policc Olficer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
"We're letting the stores know had 6 show identification.

nesses this week during a crack.

"cout slores. Until recently, the eratlon.
thie ie going to happen, ehc sald,

the cigarettes. and, if asked, they
(See BOULDER, Page 3C)

Boulder police sting stores '
for cigarette sales to mlnors
At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, pegan 01 cry
28uh SL, one of the girls asked when she was issued . um
the cashier for a pack of Mart ous"suour caid ahe was a stu-
boro Lights. Oicer Rob Hauke- dent and couldn' piore ue
ness, In plain clothes, poons "L court costs. HAnkeness poun to
Iine hehind her to witnese thç 0108y0 her, saying she could:
A placard near the cash regis. the District Attomey to do com -
ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice instradoff paying
clerk asked tn sèe some identifi The clerka, not the store OwTI
cation. Thc buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the
she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l du it to .ssjund
cd at the license, scl i down on stores or clerks, she said. "Al-:
the counter, and sold her the though, when you scc clerks cry:
Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targcted 15:
up and identified him oooros end cler a al all bur four
"When I bee them ask for an year. The Arst sting. conducted, stine
E I think they're going to re- 51 Soptember, targeted 16 stores
fuce the cale,' Haukeness sald. und SI clerks received Rum

(From Page (J1

The clerk at Colony Market.

transaction.

prububly work out a deal-with-

No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ane,,
driver's license, which showed court costs.

eigarettes.
stepped
summons.

ing, you miggh think otherwise. .
recelved summonses.
punaas tobacco sale
monges.

03 a police officer. Manka
came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wock's
"Bul they never do."

operation wax the.
this:
-