1
a
496
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richard L. Nacye, MD, and Woodrow S. may vay in incidence and Somerset Countiea of
Findings Dellinger, MS the men hnd ever
Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite ol multiple disorders, each of which severity from one pationt to another. In coal, roentgenographic categories lor found to correlate well with quantitative. measurements ol e the volume of macules and nodules. recognition of emphysema and chronic cor miners with no roentgenographic silica and collagen,
process but a B study of 77 miners of postmorlem anatorni dioxide)and collagen content of dust évidence of pncumoconiosis had
rank, low-volatile coal In Cambrin and rylvania. Nonc of eentral l'ean- ducted between autt und 19-5 ly the Pennsylvanin Departmeat of Miner End Mineral Industries skowed ar - verage coal dunt biturinegs wark- fiee silica cuntent of evnl d ant i low in all arenn of Penneyha - . Aekdom helny greater ttan $.. H: owever, the mine Jurt coteet.raa :: 9 of free nilica In greater for sonie a iderground wurkets puch as rof all-a-eaaring - The T7 casce pulverin rand. selerted B te keatd kalagne fke ly whorisited eAch of ryven pirpose R -neral huspital,, and rea. I (yot anl 1nhis. The hateh atarted with the patioi Rirts' descriptiuns of the W: lungn hen was un) mentlon of ev dve pi ement, parenchy mul nedul - Ni-e rl er any hlstury of ti. nt'a clinical mining. the 19. chart wae evan.ited. informatinn encerning ner li anl uther datn were est.ce: A Wert Vir- ce . a as inrludel in the rtudy unly In specin. minen Lad : . vr in tu: irrmdd ly a - yennidd reisi Vir,.t. TI. A "aill hal Irbyplam tin alvayy min d highrr. in" rmaiin s A4 i.v ine nhtained. (1ruun nne i Nu u & Dell 231 027050
bituminous
pneumoconiosis were niined anthracite roal. Survey eon- rocntgenop/aphic ini rhift of exposure per werk-
nodules, and (2) the silica (silicon pulmonory dust macules and emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspinea in addition lo dust rom 107 to 4G% of Appulachian chitis and coal workers have roentgeno lur, graphie evidenee of pneu- symptoms, nnd physieal findings have been dificult Lo make, workers pneunmeoniosls r"black 5 is not R single disenne but a composite uf mnltiple disorders, cach of which and neverity, dependent gruphie aren, exurt ocrupatiunal ex. posure, and opparent individual sus- eeptibility. : These multipde din. ordes indude(llthe Fem the hyann ni nf Pat- M4- * Lniser.-l Lull.ge of * le a Ma Herds, 2 tou (be Sarge) I Apral 10, 1972 . Vol 220. No 2
Unfertunately. there v:as poor
which appear to be most closcly correlated pulnonaic, lle tnu disdrciers eatle font of uir 11.10U.U fur paritdle per
wilh dyspnea. A munber of ern, The
with
macules
hronchiolitisc(J)) erntriluhu. I- ders and cledrie In panlolular, and pararieatiiciat : who Jrill inte onniive ojer di-epve pricerses tl. rough a search uf Appear to make ditfering eenta ilu e e huthera, ographie fenture of mauuooooiinsi A twevn tu determine a paeu- for easen muconiunis with disalility I in withent asruristed Tue u rre alnormulaties Patients Studiod and Methods Patirutu. The palients werr 77 un. nr Thir:y-one had ulwaye mined nf
meconlosia, hut cn relatiuns belween emphysema: und (3) tuberrulusin and n.k or encounter
such roentgenugrephie abnormalitics. onvuiimmllly othur di aree procesges,
These separate eepecinlly in lions to disability. h is the proves Another aim is may vary in inridehre somie workers upon gro enigenographic
early
stages." Theau diniculties prob of the current
ably ariee from the faet that roal individoal sully In evaluate thcir L :y prolorul thnt lnvohed every a AU-
intluences nn the ruentgen- d lrr thmn 21 yrara ol nge win man
macule; (2) silicaris, primary enal dust derground miners nf hituminuus cnal Craler, Krpte - . r M. 4 4 II. : > 2 nearly nerth. rr Pennyylvnia W..
(3) chrrunic liaan frumi Iennay hania and
ginia. of suuhh estrrn other 46 lan
Hanty Medical c hir . Penn..hunls State low-rank high-vulatib qual in evanties er unel treupational e -ttin 2 t
Pr
PUBLICATIONS
10346287
