SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE
SICK BULLDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

et al. (1987) investigared the frequency of complaints in 43

In a cross-sectional investiganion in one building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validased
complainss associased with the "sick building syndrome" questionnaire. The symproms were more common .B buikd.
were measured on e linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system aboo provided cooling and
Ar the same time, the micro-environment (environmental humidification. irreppcciiv of the *be of the buildings. A
characseristics 5 the breaching zone racher chan area direct relationship berween the level of complaints and air
samples) a characserized by measuring 'amusodun quality parameter was not described. Skov et al. (1987) ex-
relacive humidiry, respirable suspended perticulases, car. amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 moder 1
bon dioride, noise level, lighaing insensiry, relacive 4 towm halls and 1 older control buildings. A level of symp
midiry, and airflow. No relarionship a seen benween i B related o1 - "feecing" factor (carpets, upholstery.
che degree of symptoms and age, educacion. or duration and horizontal surfaces) ad the "macro-molecular compo
of employmens at the building or aime spent S the build. nent" of dust. They also demonstrated . relationship berween
hnn on . daily basis. Staristically, complaines were the number of houn spent photocopying and using carbonless
significandly more frequent among Bupyous 3 Envi- copy paper and tbe level of complaints. Ocher srudies have
ronmental characteristics associased 1 * increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985)
complaint levels in this group included decreased airflow and prychodynamic factor (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute
models, chere a an association berween respirable ad- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome by -
pended parciculases and the levels of boch mucoos I suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et
brane and ryssemic complaints. Sarisfaction wish the F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif.
I environment a predicted by percepaion of dreft ferences .s the concentrations of eaviroamental pollutants
insensiry a also associated 1 complaines. hure strate . relationship between symptoms and boch aree
1 of the sick building syndrome should examine ples measuring dust and . "macro-molecular" fraction, 4p

.
E

velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended par- 8 indoor air quality complaints.

riculases and dry-bulb semperanure. In 1
did nor clearty contribuse a the degree of sympson
alshough regression models PIP nuggest dhar compl
were nor independent of chermal paramesers.

Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
berween rooms lg a mechanically and a naturally veutileted
building. They studied the rooms with the - comp
I and used area samples. Skov et a (1987) R des
Area samples is buildings may Dot be representacive of
the exposures ls different points in & rooms. Physical
characteristics soch as windows and partitions, computer,,
and shelving may infuence air currents. Radiane heat may

mulapple exposures simultaneously 2 - prycho in area H
social mearures o identify predictors of complaints in

indoor spaces.
INTRODUCTION

Complaines lermed the E building syndrome" bave lead oI uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally. moet -
led to numerous investigations in the last 15 i They are hutants resuh from point sources, or they will be diluted h
thought to occur primarily . newty constructed odice 1 subject a farther removed from the source. The micro 1
a and, at least in the pest, were thought to be doe to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem, . different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroo
wide variety of causes have been identifed in specifl ( meat of a building. In addition. all applied occupational and
inctuding inadequate temperature and relative 1 8 environmental health rescarch that attempes oi relate dose o
trol. noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds beaktb effects sufiers from the problem that dose a penerally
and formaldehyde. microorganisms, enviroamental sobecco measured at several points in time and then extrapolated 8
smoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decades
spent Q contaminated air and boiler fumes. fbers released * most heakth effects are measured as a - 1 of
from duct linings. and ofice machine offgases and odor these chronic exposures Where the variability of I
A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms krw change not merely trom
et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri day ol day but from hour to hour, 1 a strategy must E
(Robertson e al. 1985) B unable to identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the micro
wet-bulb globe temperature, dry-bulb temperature (semper environment and set these characteristics 9 relation a the
ature). relative humidiry. air velocity. formaldehyde. or poe- level of individual complaints et a pven point .s I This
itive or nepative ions between several rooms ls a building report presents results of a croes sectional investigation of .
with patural and a building with mechanical ventilacion, problem building using a setf-administered. linear i
where both a of rooms had high levels of complaines. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
1 I . Amaum Prolesorr of Medicin und of Induscrial and Enviroamental Heahh Scences at the Unrveruty of Piesburggh Schooh
of Medicine and Publc Heahh. a 3 a Direcior. Environmental Heahh and Salery. Camepie-eellon Univeruty. Pirtsburgh. P

(Kreiss and Hodpson 1984; Hodgson and Kreiss 1986).
marily oi mechanical ventilation The same proup of suthor

results in preater than the difference in average samples, and
No investigations in the peer-reviewed literature have

3uSp