HKB2228112 AASIA BARBARA SANIA
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIECO
- - a ISPARTME / - AuR January 3, 1977 Dr. William H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Rescarch roundation 715 Kuir Lands Vista Hay La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. fishman: and Salk.
a
1A in un AA 9
We are lookina fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of Lhe La Jolla rescirch cocdunity. In particular, the activities of the la Jolla Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes should fit in well with ongoing activities noi only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establisneen of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental prublems is particularly ieely. It will be 0 graa potential importance for pulling tcgetter work, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, character iztaion and doterninatiin of the sioniticance of huran oncodevelopmontaal antigens such as alphafetoprotein and Carcinorsbryonic ent iuens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship of increased serura concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinogen exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systors clearly derion- strate tnet anirals pasodxa to hepatocarcinogens have elevated serum ArP concen- trations prior to developrant of rslionant timers. It is hoped that systeratic study of hunan scra frum differect suurces vill deterwinc if serus AFP concun- In addition. the role of env runnental factors such as hormonal influences on the production of oncodevelopmentaa gene pr.-k, can be further explored in different sy:tens. Such data implies Lha! (he prod:uction of ohcocevelopmental gene products by tunor ceils is net a fixed property of a given tumor but is We look foncard to vorking with ycu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the important subject of oncodeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatoc.arcinogen exposure.
subject to environmental controls.
expression. Best regards, Stewart Sell, H.D. Professor SS/nb
