NEW. YORK POSI, FRIDAY, MAY. 17, 9661 1
NEWWORKPOS
Amencnn olden conraonowsiy pebrished aiiity mewspuper

Anti-smoking skulduggery
leading opponents.
cigarette Scruggs insists he didn't
no danger to human uments. Perhaps not. "buy" doc-
tobacco industry. Suddenly it's revealed enterod the bankcing business, # is un-
that he is secretly receiving a salary from liams clear Aym Scruggs pmom provide Wil-
same lawyers have bought the re- Moreover, how are reasonable people to
scarcher a house and have co-signed two interpret Williams "salary?
car loans for him. In his defense, the sci- This is not the first time Scruggs has
Question: How would the media likely Brown & Williamson executive Jeffrey
react? A huge brouhaha m say the Wigand. latter's CBS Newa promised to pay the
The scientist's research, whatever its Williamson sued Wigand for breaching
actual merits, would buried under a his contract's confidentiality clause dur-
mudslide of derision. xë tobacco indus- ing a widely reported appearance on "60
grounds for attempting to buy a wit- CBS lawyers, fearing that the offer to
Now let's change a few details. Say the preted as an inducement to break the
scientist la a "whistieblower" who asserts contract, initially scotched the
that the tobacco industry is fully aware After the substance of Wigand's segment. charges
that cigarette smoking is lethal and has hit the newspapers, his înterview was
worked to conceal this fact for decades. eventually aired.
"loans," rather than working "A for to- suffered an embarrassment when a for-
bacco industry, are in fact spearheading mer Philip Morris employee recanted tes-
There you have the chain of events that Drug Administration (FDA)
actually unfolded recently in a Louisville, Jerome Rivers, a former manufacturing
Ky., courtroom. Yet the near-silence sur- supervisor for the conglomerate, with-
rounding the incident has been deafen- dréw his claim that Philip Morris rou-
Merrell run the story on Page One, reported that "evidence" to justify regulating tobacco as
representing Brown parnlegg Wil- Critics incessantly portray the
made internal uct that millions of
corporate documents available to attor- After these shenanigans, Americans d la clear
lawyer Richard some of tobacco's foes
Scruggs one of the tobacco industry's take a careful look in the would mirror. well 85

Imagine this scenario: A scientist who
claims to have discovered that
molking about to testify on behalf of the
tobacco lawyers. It also emerges that the
entist insists that, except for the
it's all just a loan.
least.
ness.

health

But unless Aln has
with such substantial "loans.
been involved with a subsidized whistle-
salary, blower: He also represented former
legal fees in the event Brown &
pay Wigand's legal costa PInoo be inter-
The lawyers providing the
and Meanwhile, the anti-tobacco forces also
the campaign against it.
timony he had given to the Food and
tinely measures and adjusts nicotine lev-
ingsA
(The FDA hoped to use this
Williams, a former
for a drug.)
a law
liamson
tobacco
$109,000
received a
hs amoral, even
ita
mortgage
othor financial
consists
though
frerobucs
in selling a
industyy
rewards. Williams
legal prod-
ug
suing the tobacco
Faplu
benefactor companies.
when the subject of ethics comes
was
"eM
do

BS would be roundly condemned on ethi- Minutes.

Today, one of the few papers to els.