HKU2223022
Life Sciences Vol. 15. pp. 1291-1300 Printed in the : A.
Pergamon Press
METAROLISM b BENBO (a)PYRENE BY KECROSOHES FRON TISFUES or PRECALAN ANp FETAL HANTEERE Irene i Wang, Ronald R. Rasmuasen, and : Timothy Crocker* Car . Research Enstitute, Univeraity of California, E Prancisco, and Depart- ment of Community and mnvironmenaal Medieine, Univereity of California, Irvine*. (Received in final form 26 August 1974 Summary Pretreatment of hansters vith beneo (a)pyrene (BaP) greatly increased a sl vitre metabol is of het by lurg mlerononns fron prognant han atare, and J I effect on the metabolien of Bap E 1iver miere- momoe. The produetion of various metaholites of BaP by lung niere- sonos war inereaned to different extentas 3-hydroxy-RAP (3-CH-BAP) was one of the najor metabolitee the metabolic yielde ot 9,10- dihydrrddiyyrooyy-BP (9,10-di01) and 7,8-diol vore incrensed wore than thee ef the 4,5-diel. In : I of 1iver mierosonao, only uhe yielde of 9,10-diol and 7,8-diol vere incressed ovar the contrel levels, The presence of cyclohexene oxide Ln the incuba tion à tures decreased the production of the diole. Basal-leval eneyme activitles in placental, fetal 1iver, and fetal akin microsonee in metabolizing hP vere very low. Pretren tment of pregmant hanatare with RaP indaced RaP-net tabolieing enzymes in fetal tierue 2 fold. Danse (alpyrene (DaP1 ie . carcinener and environmental conta . nant that is found In coal tar. nineral oil, car exhaust, tohacco smoke, moked foode, ete. (1). In vitre stadice shoved thae netabolie activation of BaP le required for ite intaraction with proteine and nuclele acide (2,3) Carller studies vith : liver pr eparations :4,5) and harater 1iver micro . 1 (6,7) shoved that Bar le metahelised mainyy 8 phenolie and dihydrodihydroxy (diel) der 'eBajaBAy. and to quinones whinh are enzynatie or air oxidation peoducte of unstable phenolie metabolitau (4,5) a vell a some unidentified more polar metabolites, The metabelies ef Rat han generally been neamred hq the production ot 3-hydroxy BaP (3-OR-RAP) wich Je often one of the major metahol ites in aaaa (3). 3-OH DAP ie torie te euitured calle (9), 1 it shove very lirtle interaction w th DBUA in vitro (6) 2 has not been shown to x carcinocenic. & the other hand, K-regton epowides ef velated polycyelie aronatic hylrocartons (PAn)bind to cell-
1291
