New! Improved! Dangerous?
4RA More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium, Experts Fear Taxic Reactions
à Lawannc LASuNE p 1he Farhhng Pa A Calcium-Fortifiedd Day a orange hnion for herakfast hechtine hamandcheese sand- bte altermom. dimerr en and . e couple lepped with mongarine, kiluwwd wupptadis . multvvi BREAKFAST mineral pill k nutritional 344e Total pared while AL in the a watching evening mHnn daReemccig Lor colelum-lrradeddd skimiikk halreup (olay, a cap s le ereum Sound i pakhrrturifedd Minee Mtldd erange hulee pretty rensonalle, ricu LUNCH - 7 à Actually. drpending on the 1 duste,, yuer day racen conld met # Ramand chhee sanderic bween 3000 and 3.500 mu Bigrans you aad 2echam the the a *igaticantly mnee "luleaale 1o Swie choese lartake Lever e 2,500 millgrann set - wunde Englih 5 Wpwe the Natioral Academg of Scdences AFTERNOON SNACK HKAS Se many foodare tho fortitiet with 1Nutr---iainn bar calcumm tla - has become made easerr to ao over the safety Net Ant that hus scan E DINNER wition resewrders cuncemee 3ar skdiess chickan bmu "A whh anything. mech a 1/2 cup hroccel topper wath sayn Richard h2.. 1moohedd Semad Courtry Crock Ph Calcim Weed the arublem waliii Labomtory the poyet potate, tappes wic. a Hepan Research Center al Tufts 1ebsp Shedfs Seread Phe Caloim L Country Rae Univorsity in Boeton. The window betwoon Coue or monee a lotad - the limit pebr batttaaaaa : de wwdign mall Indeed, the uugerginn E EVENING SNACK Aiwnay the NAS 11 1.0001 1,300m lep Brean Calelum Ri aabi ice cream ligrams lat depending en tuw onl twice chst macectadinn Glant andSaleeny) that amoent, E you 1 reachod the sadety ocling Hvr other eutrionts, pard TOTAL lave a incroane adegmee intake man de tinee hefore kevela Pau racchi 1 risy What can happen you take in too much caliim over Lime? s there haye San of 30 enw 6 beun the corder reports ofcal elum torkcity, which 8 maulle iter as 1 liraarm thom dimiin and nol thvue cal purticulurly - he and siys . 1 CAR ln perbeps some a thdr hantioon. the wiaandd catee can Ad a dlarly vermed ahowt anyone's ( whnn formation, particularly mondgg people a boant are lote e very ben have hada stere in thr pont Ton maac dade whe coasume lote mere than ithel 2 u - quirka a can ale redpce ef uther wri BOReRnEt abaurgtion ba claim Some ulialmincrabe tron and dir the hater a largdyy e . diet, sach a in hurer dirided doses throughont EE cowberd you e ln R m,," Wuedd duend xine Sadd "we F plethora - cal: sur Jortiredd Reum addod to, w aur en E Not Uhit Wond thinks calcium fortilid ofcaldhm per instead Lof the poid LAsupnn mach lower dha the reconunendatkoss T a onty  700 sumdhyr et cadeem a de at Pardue Ualverniyy in Wot Lalayette three le kor when thry a Td hutn shouk Bo aee cunmumn 1000 u the Cecuse ot PRm d 11 leran And 2 and wnmen to a
much more akium then a a of th . rent enntalued 300 in won mitiigram ef de mineral, OI course, s Purdur's Werver, fn pen niw tetsingg eelyy 200 ln 400 millip an 2y. calckam daily coreal PFa ati h un Ad. A . lo do at only tha 8 Check mena ! Wuod venure yo dont drtnk MogSod a E & CALER estomes m Jour eudrium e iption phese le 400 milligramtn an. RF Ryy 1.000 o1t * nule a Pan people shouk Sro know 350 90 300 120 Wich the exception seffianncy. thongh de a rescarchere apree that in mafcut not tn nat 1 anee more tban 2,600mmgrmmau fenr cimm dally. n variations d aheorption . 8 raton out up, Woaver "Make Ne mauch sag 212 107 Aar a noe gningadwn OOTE 150 130 Woo mny Dar ataying within dh thi h partimuar concern in houschodde with b 200 140 molhur trying Be get more calciun and ho son who alreade geta plenty hy shoer of the kes ount e food he eats 8 L3 4 P might Ing cadcharn fortiand Lonng e 47 cimn 4 unied irick eerenl and an an, - milh ee a the ent D gardes Julee 2 an fecehell A . I . H A 10 bowe ot osreal a an afc echoot anad * could & be getung thoumans of tru 162 Rowme of calchur Wiod and other reseerchers - agrcy GO0 o92 that an best en pet your calcium frem a can etp ed foodu rather then coe or two furtifeed ence and Uul at kaue soun Apssogg of 3.304 1,487 shoudd rome foom mik and other dairy pad 4 . - h . a a - 14 Wente he 1 uCtA "fiisurigyly.. Weaver explum, who have ben deficient . endciu sod d l in mapacsiim,, rinrlavin, vitamin - 2 a A and vilamia D - a availa in m "pllry vas kndd nf slupping ke un E I Metaboli-m Lab at Tulls, this parkage e mutriudt,, 24 N X a the m de aig ocher cakclum furtinid lood, ton locaaarch Conte at Tute laparticulurly ha nome res vations, ton, be concerned that E withali conoeera in the hody's sheception the od a nutrient Enu wil la people whe dep or a de calcium. vou absorb more calcium i thinklog ther 8 nourishi in themellve a ou hook of the day quatel "yo dont get the We T Fleet, . mineral researcher at her Phr he andothers 28 hune sonte reservations Hewa debumssrueedd the point when da peoute ent tuo thet vou don ever have protected just be Gencral Mans, On one hand. cause you Ore ortting . uf caddlmm. We comppnnggg that the cakciam in Uhe nereal . demdr . ab wrre nguhened ly excriie,, he "Addr weak ceed ino liedl vitamin 1e every 300 miligramn of ralcium commuandd BE which is necessary EE cakclum absorp 30 pervent caticdne. Bod I ar ces wurk tu fhush the Hut u dh enkcum in 9 me al Bons up minen frcen the bnaly via Uhe urine. pat " mik in one wai um he onb ane et hr dE n T a a cuase you 1 boml Tutll doesn - 4 Aer ahsorb seh abuut 100 of them, Heaney way.. Limdmer a cmnwiiee elitor ofthe Tutr
The enlcium mecommendacion fu teenagee le 00E'1 miliigranss adelts 1o age an, enkelure foctiset foods on the merket today, in e to comeune aace dovens deen 2,500
hew teforres with mitt anda das 1.000 milligrams: and adulu Sl-luus, 1.200 milligrams.. Bet with the of di lollowed k sacc J in the wiiliggam-- Tulerable Upper Inteke Level set bn the Nathaaal Acaingg ot A L 1 bnefoe chirk Sclence even GA diet of only vog't ralurion. aut the huuumin
= h E 1.00 1 . - d . - . h 1 Te 1 . w a r a - -
Othen 1 Bha calctum-doriiiied foode agres She alw queat ne the LOO 1 mah = . lade mon ditiiued in y A a
The Ming mude a we tharue "moggh are ressonable eptlon. 1enor the concrpt Nirrm et rraicumm nr re - te every wew 2 a ae cakciun bet mu nuneeaale remmrks,, offortifiiution Robert Meanyy eak in rorfiull ecreal, ARLL en exccashe kee ether abbtanees trom aal Then. hn percalenndas, as toxicity et Onuha And LA Wond he's not partie ls an anpreendonted kevel, pedaally higher Irwin Rosenberg. durector of the Nutri wuich h acecsaayy for wound bealing and Ead Alrica and Lapps whe lerdrcindeer F H Thoc's wly pospd who uhe 600 2 prndcur dictary cholces because yun've fesctioning the ismune nysten morthern Scandinavia, "Lypicaliy a 6,000 milipann worth of eukcimm mappleweents piched lon u t heavily fartified fodd "h foode area hed thing 7 think they re cond 100 milligrams, pue remarks, ve (the amount le a om ef mik), the body a din and pertape by t0o much sodjun por he wmenc 20 he a yegre e awrra Adde Conale Winnee a ouchum investiga Che ahrorption Ca I I you hne M other mudda, a showld he wpiting 1,300 milligrams, are ta of hu and calorles. The you fre wolving ode ligramn a the sane wih the Total Since E onl abuut AP Uut umoun li'sa sl problem whil making another ann Ipreva one arrving mpplicc 1.000 miltigraa,,, yeu Bating Riche eodummis Laarener hndtr innre on the ander of R fo 39 mil Bew Derson Haghen chief of the Calci hothrr minds, yo re met nhearbing Aggaa Uwinersity Healhh A Nidri ln Leltm
um researcher Creighton University in 2 fortification, she com mmedda E certainir foodk
single
Se i study a pont-mengpansaa wom te 000' milligann el calcimm per dey and 4e arr - vinet te - whw theer twa 300 aay "Hicheariim dit te heve "absolutely probiems," be wayh milligmm pille et different nacab, While sech penblems bave bene rar vote about which loods dhe mineral & to be cunde dnt haovval dability testing An NE vour bones tirvot RB thek heenming m comme - ine le meam thel contalon 300 miluggaan sorbeljet a wellas theenkhwr in uik
mnaarlet sbelves rabes the Bur imtanue. Breyer's ismu lnr narket i be suya "Averng lntakee are ppnt mesed fochin on the juck laod situa sorbs 001
ee miligrann Fumghly - cuntains 000 millign LuuRou
PPP who needing Lnno epeople ealciun teeaa lots dwiaalis to 15 perevnt alcet 150 m mcan you vecovored all thh hoses.
EE doryy for men. althomgh the pe fo theen innce et Tobesityl -
