THE MIGRATION OF TOBACCO-SPECIFIC NITROSAMINES INTO THE SALIVA OF CHEWERS OF NICOTINE-CONTAINING CHEWING GUM Swedish National Food Administration, Box 622, S-751 26 Uppsala, Sweden (Received 14 November 1989; revisions received 22 May 1990)
B.-G. OSTERDAHL
Abstract -In many countries nicotine-containing chewing gum (Nicorettes) is used to help to break the habit of smoking. Saliva was collected every Smin from chewers of nicotine chewing gum and analysed for tobacco-specific nitrosamines. Detectable levels of tobacco-specific nitrosamines were found in all samples collected between 5 and 15min after chewing had started. The levels of N'-nitrosonornicotine ranged from 0.4 to 10 ng/g of saliva and thuse for the sum of N'-nitrosoanatabine plus N'-nitrosoan- abasine from 1.3 to 46 ng/g. suouminq-1-(jspad--C)-1-ougursoum.somm-N-sAqou-u-N) was not detected in the saliva. The nicotine chewing gum was found to contain up to 380 ng tobacco-specific nitrosamines/g of
chewing gum.
INTRODUCTION
and stored at the same temperature. The sodium
Tobacco-specific N-nitrosamines (TSNA), derived hydroxide (rcagent grade), deionized water and from tobacco alkaloids, are the most abundant strong dichloromethane used were checked to ensure the carcinogens identified in tobacco and tobacco smoke absence of substances that might interfere with the (Hecht and Hoffmann, 1988). N-Nitrosonornicotine determination of nitrosamines. Reagent blanks were (NNN) and E)-I-(ouquesospu-N-IAUQUE-N)-N analysed for TSNA and no interfering peaks could be Hoffmann, 1988). The TSNA also include N"-nitro- (numbers 1 and 2) and two males (numbers 3 and 4), soanabasine (NAB), which is weakly carcinogenic aged 34-5lyr were studied. All of them had been (Fig. 1; Hilfrich et al., 1977) and N'-nitrosoanatabine smokers for 16-30yr, and normally smoked 15-25 (NAT), which does not appear to be carcinogenic cigarettes per day. No. 1 had stopped smoking and used in many countries. for example Sweden, the before and every 5 min during Nicorette" chewing. help smokers stop smoking. The purpose of the capped test-tubes, weighed, and Im! M-sodium content of Nicorettes and to determine whetber these The samples were analysed within 90 min. None of
observed.
pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) are the strongest car- cinogens among the TSNA (Fig. 1; Hecht and
Subjects. Four healthy volunteers, two females had used Nicorettes during the preceding 2 months. About 2-9 39 saliva samples were coliected in screw- Nicorette*. The weight of the chewing gums was Extraction of TSNA from salica. The TSNA con- tent of saliva was determined by a previously re-
(Fig. 1; Hoffmann et al., 1984). Canada and the USA, are saliva.
Collection of saliva. Saliva hydroxide was added as soon as the volunteers smoked for about 1g.
were collected possible thereafter. before 15min chewing
Nicorette", a nicotine-containing chewing gum, is present study was to investigate the possible TSNA substances extracted and/or formed in vivo in the
samples
UK, as a prescription drug to
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Chemicals. NNN NAT, NAB and NNK were gifts ported method, with minor modifications (Osterdahl from Dr J. D. Adams, Naylor Dana Institute for ànd Slorach, 1988). The alkaline saliva sample was Discase Prevention, American Health Foundation, placed on an Extrelut column (10-15 cm long, 2 cm Valhalla, NY, USA. Nicorette* was obtained from i.d.), and the test-tube in which the sample had been AB LEO (Helsingborg, Sweden) and the batches used collected was rinsed with 3 x 1.5ml water, which was were between 1 and 4 years old. Dichloromethane also placed on the column. After 10-15 min, the (analytical grade) was obtained from Riedel-de-Haen column was eluted with dichloromethane (4 x 25 ml). AG (Scelze-Hannover, FRG). Extrelut was pur- The eluate was concentrated to about 0.3 ml in a chased from E. Merck AG (Darmstadt, FRG), water-bath at 55°C and, finally, to dryness under a and was dried overnight at about 170°C before use gentle stream of nitrogen at room temperature. The NNK - 1-(IAPMAd-E)-1-(ourunosoau-N-N-MAquou-N)-D Varian 2700, Palo Alto, CA, USA) interfaced with a Thermal Energy Analyzer; TSNA tobacco-specific Electron Corp., Waltham, MA, USA). The furnace
residue was dissolved in 001 pal dichloromethane. Analysis ofTSNA. Analyses were carried out using Thermal Energy Analyzer (TEA; Model 502, Thermo was removed from the TEA and connected to the
Abbreviations: GLC - gas-liquid chromatography; NAB - butanone; NNN N'-nitrosonornicotine; TÉA
N'-nitrosoanabasine: N-nitrosamines.
NAT N'-nitrosoanatabine; an isothermal gas-liquid chromatography (GLC;
