P Epidemial Vol. 47, Na. 10, 2 1141-1167. 1994
Copyright o 1994 Devier Science La
Prinsed in Great Britain AR rights racrved
0895-4356/94 57.00 +0.00

Pergamon

0895-435494)00081-6

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN SMOKERS, EX-SMOKERS,
PASSIVE SMOKERS AND NON-SMOKERS
ALISON THORNTON, PETER LEE* and JOHN FRY
P. N. 3 Statistion and Computing Lad, 17 Cedar Road, Sutton, Surrey SM2 SDA, England
(Receased le revised form & March 1994)
Abstract The extent to which current, ex- and passive smoking are associatod with
other risk factors, and the polential for confounding arising from these associations, was
studiod using a representative sample of 9003 British adults. The distribution of 31
lifestyle factors generally considered associated with adverse health were compared in
current smokers, ex-smokers, never smokers living with . smoker ("passive smokers")
and other never smokers. or the 33 risk factors 27 showed a significandy higher
prevalence in heavy smokers than in never smokers and only two showed a lower
prevalence. For many risk factors, prevalence increased with amount smoked, docreased
with time of smoking oessation and was increased in passive smokers. The possible
magnitude of hias from confounding by the risk factors is estimated. It is concluded that
confounding by multiple risk factors may be an important issue in smoking studies
where weak associations are observed. This applies particularly to studies investigating
the possible association of passive smoking with various health effocts.
Smoking Passive smoking Confounding Bias

INTRODUCTION

gists normally do attempt to take account of

Numerous epidemiological studies have investi- such differences where relevant to the endpoint
gated the relationship of current smoking, past studied and thus 5 to minimize bias due to
smoking and exposure to environmental confounding. Differences betwoen non-smokers
tobacco smoke ("passive smoking") to mor- exposed and not exposed to environmental
tality and morbidity from a variety of discases tobacco smoke are less well studied, though
(1). Because smokers and passive smokers are recent reports [4,5] have pointed to a possible
not a random selection of the population, such confounding of the lung cancer relationship by
theoretical possibility that observed differences A study of the literature over many years by
between the groups studied may arise, at least in one of us (PL) has led to a number of pro-
part, due e differences in exposure from other visional conclusions being reached. Firstly,
risk factors and not wholly to effects of smoking smokers tend to have unhealthier lifestyles than
or of environmental tobacco smoke exposure. non-smokers in a number of respects, so that
Many differences between smokers and non- they would be expectod to have higher rates of
smokers, such as in alcohol consumption [2]and many diseases even in the absence of any effoct
social class [3). are well known and epidemiolo- of smoking. Secondly, for many of these lifestyle

studies have always to take into account the diet.

02
47
2
b
21

factors passive smokers are also somewhat
worse off than non-smokers unexposed to

"Aurhor for correspondence

1143