s/u/P?
JHT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira New Pork Times Semier
wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotioo about 80 New Taiwan dollars a made cigarettes last year, ringing became an issue even in recent pack (98'zs) compared with 22
TAIPEI The Marlboro cow. up sales of 611$ million. la "9861 trade talks between the United New Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for boy in his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Suates and Taiwan. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis Sown. His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs. registered * ing is Japan are more liberal, Com- guitar-playing. jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accountod give out goto free cigarettes and gifts, an aggressive campaign Television This frenetic, fast-groming na- cigarette exporis last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawod in the United States in 1971. tioe of nearly 20 million people ly because both Tawan and Japan school students - 12, i3 years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan amoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-standing restrictions. are DOW smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry label that, year and for the first time, a According lo the Brown & Wil. rette companics promote cigareties roughly translated, says, "For the ubstantial number of chem were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? It's O.K. to have them sake of health don't smoke too made .a America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" warning much milder To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy $16 billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in si uomg in new sales the. United States. But those people mandated in the United States. Wacturers have essentially intro- In. Japan, which has - population are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe 'companies say Amencan
and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
panies can advertise on TY after
out this city, next to posters & a peroeni. o of Winston cigarettes.
KauL. amusement places 10 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting
for most o the growth in American he said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-
of 120 million and where people
duced cigarette advertising to the tbe American companics of entic- ing teen-agers o unke dn moking. a charge the American companies operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992. the cigarette market bad not adver- tised, altbough = does pow, The government agreed to allow .proseure from Washingion. in the alcohol. year since stiff restrictions on for. & cigarettes were dropped. have soared, generating much- ufacturers = - time when sales in the Uailod Suates are down and tbe number ol anti-smoking laws is way 'dn
'uru - human being, you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiman
island, and that has created furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year. that. Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled B
not 01 much because of the adver- tising as because they are of better quality and taste beiter. American with the way are cigareties are made of blended to and bacco and have less tar than Tai-
the past year. Tbe market share & American cigarette manufactur- in American cigarettes increased 5 5 vigorously deny there any- more than perceat last year, thing wtong they from 3 percent in 1986, and the promoting their products say Department of Agriculture pro- - thry have no pians lo change their wascse cigarettos, Tbey are not allowed to advertise television newspapers Nor Taiwan officials say tbey resent 00 or ig American pressure to open their have they pusbed sodo so, they say. markets de producta that éndanger They can advertise only through 5 small stores where cigareties are sold, as well a sales "This really burts our feelings, through promo- said Jaw Shau-kong a tions. Cigarette manulacturers may rines, ol whoec droulation acl. cach axport to Taiwan? Younger dom exooods 200,000. and females are a lot Befors last forcign ciga- smoking yoar, forgile young altractive oent of the market. Taiwan im- pho-riak-61 girla immoral. A result, imported digaretier cost
10
which are not
botly deny.
The goverament-administered dicts that it could prow to SI to 20 sales pitch.
bleaded.
others into the business oaly under poople's health. like cigareltes and posiers hung near cigaretie racks or . American cigarettes in Taiwan II.. tbe United Sustes docs legisiator. not en- aiso place 120 ada a year in maga.
peadod prowth for American man- courage its poople to amoke, why
way
causc of American ada. They hire rettos accountod for leas than per. wearing short skirts 10 give ing cig. posed strict quotas on forcign and then it becomas a habit. It's cigarettes and imposed stift tariffs.
According to the U.S. Depart- arettes free in nightclube k's a cigarettes, banaed imports at the mbat ol Agriculture, people in Tal. difficult for young boys to resisi, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed to sell
0/0/9000SZ
- à
