LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday March 20, 1977
ALOOKAT-TESTS
To judge by the torrent of protést - a PDA has received, a sizable por- tion af the. calorie-counting public Elusivé as a logic et I law may agrees. Long accustomed to a cross seem.to the: general public, medical firg: A criticism from industry pur researchers say. that. the animal 3 consumer activists, the FDA has been périments upan-which such regulato- bésteged by, citizen demands liber- decisions are basèd 'do have a sen ate saccharin. And moves arerafoat F sibier rationale par that. they dor Cangress 9 amend the Food. and. have adirect-bearing on risk 9 hu-. Drug Actem - it 1 f mans. - There'sbeen a remendous cuttery STTIP true, researe acknowiedge; A from all:aver the country," # EDA thattherats 'at thecenter of this fur- EFT spokesman in Washington said: A a consumed each day the saccharin Times S lence weeter ranges from anguish ta anger: We've 1 - at reughly "1,000 cans of "never been this busy." a te equivalent soit drinic But they-con- 5 ban lowecaiorie ces it make ie a popula The FDA: forits part; says it was it misleading-if not dishonest food additive an he strength of what 'only doing what the. law required. sidèr to suggest, as the calorie counell has, happens when hundred rats and. L the law-specifically the Dela- that [ makes the resear E offsprings eat additive in . clause inserted. in the, disparity H a ney Congress tirelevant 6. humans. - hure doses? pood and Drug Act in 1958 says that:1 Peaple who drink one can a The Calorte Contral Council, Inc. A porficod) additive shall be "deemed, a saccharia soft oniy drink "run a not. The trade daxal Allanta thinies argani- tahe safe sti it is found after tests - comparably lower risk of cancer. But B e ai 213 million peopie, comes trom manufacturers a. dietary tion of the food additives:tou thes collective population hazard cauld still add. far full- - cancer upto several thousand cases af blac of dallars in thelast few days - The clause doesinct allaw I bal- dericancer a : : : - Moreover, scientists note; rat * led the FD. to ha inistration fos its decision 8. ban evidençe R cancer a hum saccharin, l' the oniy nonnutritive- sweetener currently an the market Paven the a IA is willing 8 admit there's * basic difference between d. rats and humas i." cne a ad in the. TEA Street Journal:observed. S,AI 1 another : mpie af the arbitrar matire of big E 7emment 1
The.Ban.on Saccharin:
9
satim. whose $ 0,000 annual budgetid which are appropriate forthe evaiua- food and drinic has spent thousandss tiduce safetyat B. trm or animal a - age newspaper ads across the coun- * ancing of ns and benefit. Nar daes it1 berating the Food and Drug Ad- 1: redtire- the: ban tar bei: based on
à
7035437
0087432
TIMN
