True-raise Questions on the Chenistry and Psychophyslology of Odor and Flavor la H Sone nodern workers suggoat that nocurnte mensurement of vibrattonal frequency (in the for infrared, for exenple) of ue unknown odorant will pernit prediction of its quallty and intensity. T No elenental substance, not even halldes or ozone hes any odor; Instead they react with the mucosa fonning new products whlch are sme lied; à T J Sone odorants have sterle or vibrational propertles which force the cone luslon : they are odor less whon they are not 11, h Present evidence strongly suggests thet different parts of the olfactory receptor ares, Ilke tho retina to the eye, are qua ilty-spocific. T Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor - No one yet has a - clue as to the critical reletion between the molecule and the receptor which permits an odor perception. T The greater the secretion rate of mucous or salive, the N gher their "Hd and both HO and temperature influence the quality of sensation in the 111. T The ideal Instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sane quantitative range as does an a 1 or human sub ject. T 1 Such en Ideet detector hes not heen developed. Haman observers with head In fixed position can Aq virtue of the twe Indopondent nostrils easily discern stereo suoll effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier a odor on Is of the right or left hand, sucte 03 one uses his two ears in locating the source of a sound. T For certaln musk-l Iko compounds, forty molecules ar sufficlent to trigger a hunon olfacte ory response. v. - Adaptation ou one olfactory unb lity does not significantly reduce sensitivity to any other dissiel lar quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all siml lar qualities. T By enploying a similarities aethod of compering qualities, one con now obtain Identity and degroes of difference without recourse to troshlo- vi, - Hunger louers thresholds stight ly to some food qualities but not for 1 = in now possible to identify the intensity and quality of a certain given stimull simply by expert examination of the electrophysiological record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons. T Electrical stimulotion of taste in nan yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkaline" quality. T a Direct electrica stimulatlon of the olfactory senso has successfully accompilshed. VII, T 5 Although total anosela is rore la humans and ageus lo even rarer, there is evidence that le analogy to color vision deficiences, sone people are Insenaitive to (only certein) qualities while having normal sensitivity to others. T Toplcal anesthetics applled to the tongue shos that dl fferent quelities 1 Certain endocrine diseese entitles nake = possible for some people quite sensitively to "smell" such "odor less" substances os sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to normal by manipulation of endocrine levels. T a onenopause wonen at the time of ovulation fInd certain odors extrenely disagreeable whlle at other tlmes In the menstrual cycle these some odors
sone elements possess taste.
surface In order to be snet Iled.
chemical senses.
Iv.
sone wor ds. others.
yer beon
50
of taste disappear at different rates.
they wlu Judge quite pleasant,
