17

ATTIN - a G -

New! Improved! Dangerous?

With More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium, Experts Fear Taxic Reactions

B. Asrar des Lasuan
Sosied le 7he dindinglen Rat
erange le 1 1 fei
huchtine a
a nou sand
wid Sollowed in - A la lu the
late aftormon. A4 - thon me hefor chick
en and - couple of vegetables topped with
morgarine, fiiluwed ar dely multivita BOCAVTAS
mini mineral niti kr nutritional insusanos.
Then, while entching IV la the eveaing
lalteup (olas, cup) u ke greun. Sounde
pentty rensonable, ridu?
Actually. depending 04 fhe trands 1 LURNCH
dasite, 1110 $ naces puano nct be
tween 300 and 3.500 milligrams you cald
am- sicaticantly sore thas à "Tulerable
Upper lanake Level" of 0007 milligans set
In the the National Aradeng of Scimes AFTERNOON SNACK
(NAS) Sin mam 1 are how fortitial with
calelum thut a fias hrese ead reasier Bogo
sot the safety lt And thas hus same a DINNER
trition resen dare conourmed.
"As whh anything ke 1 ona * a 1/2 oup hroccol topped with
prublem, sage Richard Wood, chief of the
Mineral NHownilability Labomtory af the
iteman Nutrition Research Center at Tufts
University in Boston. The wiadow between
aptimal letade a the upper limis & reke Gnet -
shely mall Indeed, the Patequate intaker EVENING SNACK
stafithhelty the NASI 1.000 to 1,300
Tigramsa das depending en aun Oitr twice dest marketadin Glant and Safeeal
that zus E you've reached the sadety
oriling 2 marg other rutelenta, you'd TOTAL
tinorn hefore maching risks levela
What can happes a you take in toe mach
cadeium OW - Wood surs theme have
1 "on the order of 30case reports" ofcal
cium toukity, which a mauiles karle a la lismarmes
perbeps Inse some d thek function.
the wlacrul a catied, can
pamp xine balance

much more askium than a bund of da a
real enntalael 300 to 400 mition of de
mineral,
Ot oour - Purdur's Winer, Sur pen
ole niw setsing unly 200 le 100 milleprams
3 calichum daity the coreal 1 a lic une
Ad. Anda le of people do 01 oub dat
1 Wood wmoure -ir you don drink
www a cascnar entomes
milk, your calrium a notion a alant
300 le 400 milli trame - he Hers,
1.000
110
Syale rule of thumb people sbocki
350
30
know
300
120
with the exosptionef fleancy, though de
rescarchere agrée that it's salest aot tr ont
waye dore 2,500 miligramsufcondriom
tban
daily, regandhes R variations a aboorption
81
ratca "Count F Whaver Aays. "Male -
212
10/
nerrenne gringalwe TONE
150
130
Wod myn that stayingwithlu de tinit *
partimlar concern in houncholle with MT
200
. mothur trying a Mint more calcium and hir
140
leenage son who alrealy grte elents he
dacr dint of the umount od foodhe eats Sbe
13 20 142
might - calciura furtilind preaux julce, a
-
47
26
due fort I 4 cereal and an an, tut
11
17
bo spuslen milk e juler - - de antaigei a
a
- 217
aller foschelt practine han a casder ne à
100
50
bowts a esreal a an after-schoul un a a
could cusily be Metung thresaeds of Li
162
-
ligrams of calchum.
Wiod and other reseerchers abe agey
600
ate
dhat Dt's 40 ort sour calcium frem nani
etr et fisods rather thin coe or two heavily
furtified enes. and dut at kout soue of *
3,304
1,487
should come foom - and other dairy prod
lem low in magesitm, reallavin, vitamin
a and vitamta Ball mailable in mille.
"palry was kind of oneatop shupping ke
tion Hescarch Conter na Tulla, b particulurty
that - i
withalich conventra
I Floet, - minel researcher at Pur

A Calcium-Fortified Das
3/4 co
sap 1
en cham fortified Mine Mald erange hlle
er
un
a
ee aan
- a Seins choese
Wundur Englich I
Nute
bar
a a aklaless chicken Lamant
te Shedes 1 Courn Cod Pha Cakek
baind potate, lages wit
de Shedte - a Ca Pove Bhe Galoire
a
ap Dreart Calelum Ru vatilia ke cream

The enlcium mecommendation fir teenagre is 008"1 milligrums: adletts 10 age sn,
lusi fortititied foods ou the market today, in case to comsanier mone den 2:500
ram * Tulerable Upper Intake Leved a Le the Nathand Araderg of
un diet of only vog't calurion, Check eut the Sultuming muma

hund of onnea a 30 die L.000 unilligrams: and aduls Slelus, 1.200 milligrais. Het with the douens of

lave be incrome the adequate intake many - I ster - - - - - -- a - de : - de he - wote "ffisturigly Wower expluin, per
fhom dimines and wat thue cal ification Othen agree that calcium-fortified fixode agpres She 4 queatione the LNX mil H = - Hade mone diffied a 1 le à
The kidnyn, made ef wet thue, "micht br are - resonanate optien. a favor the conorpt lumans of calclum - I fo every ww Ing Se ot cakium bet TKA nrensurily the
pur Newly minemble." à remarks, and a fortificution," sis Robert Heaney. - caki ingoffital ecreal, PLL an exceasive dend ether ubstances from colclem- forthled
Thon, ton, hypercalcenala, as toxicity et Oeuha Aad unlle Wued, he's not partic is an amprecondeted level. probably higher Inwin Rosenberg. director of the Nutri
have hada stone a the port. Too mach ald whe coosume lots more than Ithel - he emae A the quicka in the 1 aborcption tim ofa single nutrient will bal people intu
a can ala roduce abaurytion ef twe other daims Some populations whe depend on a of calcium. Yon wit abarb -iore calcium it thinking they're nourishing thenelves ade
emcuttalminerabcirom and rine the fattern n lanedy wn datn diet. warfi a cowberds in you hane deded.do thruughont the dast quately. "Yve dont axt off à hok of -
Much h accoman for wouud braling and Base Alrica and the Lapps whe lenireindeer 4 : Thod's win popk whe ude ou a prudeut dictary cholces beause at,nor
pruper foactionling a the ismune - in northern Scandinavia, "typically KO16,000 maitlipans worth of caleium upplements pickedone a den heavily fortified fuods a
While sash problems have bona rar wota about which foods the misserst 1 to be condedind hisoulubablity testing de Total's your bones completaly proterted aut he
- re supermariet sbelves rabes the Hur intanse. Beever'sismow land narket [ thit the cakian in Ue nerret de ale demaity is * strenghened ler exerdian," he
dirvat of theie beoming more commen. ine le mam thet contalon 300 mitagrame sorbed ant a welas thecaklura in milk. Hor HYA Andin weaknnd hy foe lied vitamin
tiot that Wiond think calcium-fortified nfcaldimm per halfeup inatead of the typical every 300 milliame of raleium comumed D." which is necessary for calclum absorp
Soodsarea hud thing. . think they * Rood 100 mitigrams, and Hesney remarks Tve (the amount le om of mik), the bodr ab din-and pertaps by too much sodjun ami
a be suva "Averna intakes are aruch 04 mixod fochng S the juck laod altua worbs 100 mitigrami, e runghly 30 pecent caticine. Buch subnlances wutk du fhush the
he mine, wwen an Le a yeare <41 averup Adde Conale Vilienver, auchum luventica Che ahorption rate mon dem. n you have - other mnda, 09 Hauney I it. "cale
whon thes shoull N curtining 1,000 dag: hed. Telhate tose peopk uve the cacise of 1 cuntains I oort milligruna 1 cuase you ve 1 a lar a Total doesn't
Tenuan And wumen 65 and PPP who needingtoget gnoss calciun. loeat lots dwitallics to 11 pervend alwet 130 mil mean you ve cosed all the howes.
lee mady about lelt dut amount. tesa sim problem whila making anocher ann (prev onn arrving supplics 1.000 nailligrama, you Hating@Richscudummist Laumence
adtre inne an the ander of a la 3 unil Bon Dann Haghen chief of the Caldi inother minds, yua'remet nhaurhingterribly Uwinervity Hraltha Nutrition Lellen

hete - 1.000 I . - - I . he Derent : I 1 1 - - - ple aho have besu deficient E cadcium have

un aral Bue Metabolem Lab at Tulls, thin package A autriste, de 1 * a

um researcher at Creighton University ir 2 fortification, she commente le certalnir d
sainey utarty concerned albowt anyons I wwr than de airg odher caddum furtaled food.

done furmation, particularly peogle wbu boant "There lote ol very healthy

hux a

be
reservations, tox, concerned

Mondadas

are

people Wewer

a I study a pontemengaumal won te 00074 millignans of w per t aud de an advinel te - Far Cheir two 300 a
I Wiud reporta "Highealeleiom licts ne hew "abschately no problems, be - milligram pille et different naraln

Por he and others de hunie sove reservations Hesme destrestrated the pnint when he des, priate cat, tue thet ymedont men have

SUW, F plethura A calcha Mortitied Reum added 1o,
mwh love dhan the recommendations F Bun
onty abaut 700 milligrums et caliclum

prodares General Mms. a one hand, he cause aunas wetting lo of cudduni "bos
Nut a the osdum in I mral ions - mineral froms the budy via the urinc.
ahsorb selr abuet 150or thm, Heaney wign Lininer Cr cowtine efitorofthr Thute

tor at Pardue Univenity le Wist Lalagette, three fo four eups d anik in one sating- um h onbr ene part of the purale, Just he

shand he vedting 1,300 milligrams, are tak of fu and calorles Then youre solving one figam, a's the sine with the Total Since

ar don for men althongh the wan for them imece Muraop I