Vol. 285 No. 23

EDITORIALS

1317

The New England
Journal of Medicine
Official Organ of
The Massachusetts Stedical Society
Founded ist 1812 as the Neve ENGLAND JOURNAL or
MEDICINE AND SURGERY and continued in 1528 an Vol. of
the BOSTON MEDICAL AND SURGICAL Jouanal
PUBLISHES WEEKLY BY THE COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATIONS
or THE MASSACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY
Claude 3 Weich, M.D., Cininnan
Joseph Garland, M.D.. EDITOR EMERITUS
Franz J. ingelfinger, M.D., EDITOR
ASSOCIATE Entroas
George S. Richardson. M.D., Boos Reviews
O'Leary, ASSISTANT
EDITORIAL BOARD

ACTION ON ASBESTOS
ASBESTOS workers are unintentional victims of
industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary
fibrosis, pleural calcification, mesothellomas and lung
cancer. Asbestos exposure is now widespread,
involving not only air but also
wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the
lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex-
posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or
ferruginous bodies may be, there is no doubt that
electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers
ease in the general population at this time, the
presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing.
Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by
most chemical and physical means and can float
freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods.
Asbestos discases have a long latent
sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must
the
now, on basis of "reasonable
ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition
of dose-response relations
These thoughts are reinforced by the work of

drinking water.

Alexander Marble, M.D,
Samuel Proger, M.D.

Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al-
Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-

20
period,
probabili-

Jane F. Desforges, M.D.
Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.
Robert
Robert E. Johnson, M.D.
Norman 2 Levinsky, M.D.
Francis D, Moore, M.D.
Charies A. Sanders, M.D.
Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D.
Ronald A. Arky, M.D.
Dana L. Farnsworth, M.D.

Ronald A. Malt, M.D.
EDITOR

Arnold L. Smith, MD, years or more. We therefore believe that more

be made

Jola W. Littlefield, M.D, Murphy and associates in this issue of the Journal
Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, 6 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in
Louis Weinstein, M.D, new ship construction include better than
John R. David, M.D. exposure data and indicate a high inçidence of as-
Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. pestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have
Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-

Howard Bleich, M.D,

usual

Isadore N. Rosenberg, M.D.
Milton C. Paige, 4 BUSINESS MANAGER

tions. A second study of Murphy et al.' reports two
cases of pleural disease (one mesothelioma) in
workers who sanded asbestos floor tiles. Since the

AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au-
and should consult "Information for Authors." This malerial thors simulated the working conditions and found
may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour- concentrations of 1.3 fibers per milliliter of room
nel, or it may be obtained from the /oarnal office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of currently
space, and all material, including figures, should be submit- used threshold limit values. A fiber per milliliter of
CASE REPORTS, usually published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 10: Abers every
gence" section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled

manuscript, including references, should be typed double
reference to articles reporting closely related cases. A very fibers remains in the
short case report or a description of technic submitted as a
"Bxier RECORDING" should a limited to 500 words,
MATERLAL printed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period.
cine is covered by copyright The Journal does not hold iuelf
responsible for statements made by any contributor.
NOTICES should be received not later than noon on Mon-
day, 24 days before date of publication.
cies published. Requests should be sent to the author.
imply endorsement by the Journal,
Arbor, Michigan 48106.
chusetts 02115.

ted in duplicate.

room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per
an alarming number will still accumulate over a 10-
A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation-
al Academy of Sciences panelt has called for control
of asbestos emissions at the source and for protec-
The report also calls for further research on the
fibers; such data are urgently needed "if a

these
lung,

-

figures suggest that

REPRENTS: The fourmal does not stock reprints of the arti- tion of those who are exposed in their occupations.
ALTHOLGH all advertising material accepted is expected to biologic effects and the physical characteristics of
SUBSCRIPTION PRICES (worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with
interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates: are in U.S. fundsonly. confidence." Although we endorse these recommen-
MICROFILM volumes available to regular subscribers dations. we want to underline the urgent need for
through University Microfilms, 315 N. First Strees, Aan technical controls based on existing knowledge.
COMMUNICATIONS should be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as-
land Journal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects

conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance does not asbestos

on cells and tissues are important and must be con-