ler -
(ge 0%k
1 €
RA
ENVIRONMENTAI RESBARCH - 411-420 (1m6)
of
Relative Hepatotoxicity of Some Industrial Solvents after Intraperitoneal Injection or Inhalation Exposure in Rats INGVAR LUNDBERG, MARIANNE EKDAHL. TONY KRONEVI, VITAUTS LIDUMS, Reseanh Depurimes, National Reard 4 Ovenpatimul Safery - Neahh, 1-171 a Sulan, Sweden Intruperitoncal LDa (lethal dose son hill values and maimal liver sesic duses in 1 Spragut-Duwky Fule were detemined lu ihe - : indusing solvents toluene. 1 yene chloride. carbun retrachloride 1.1. inchkwiscihene - - En hlur 194 eshene inchlore eshylene. ethangl. methyl ethal hetune and dunans hue the 1 - solvents LC, values and inimul hver IUAK : consentration: - a deierninged arkes alysene. chlore I tetruchlurusshykne 1 ameshylformamade HOMP A acrum astindy a the s zyme sorbitel dehydrogenane (SDH) - www a en - alsm e be damage Carbun isim chloride chlorufurm, and DMF were hepelptunk in k ches cumpared le LD, values (TD, floaic duse $ vehe approsimancly a w and * i Chlorulorm and DMP (TC, (tosic cuncentration xon valuss appruumenely sw and 7w - Even relatively 1 denes of the uther sibent de - farse the sue activity Signifisant diresi (metabo he mediaied) hepulotosicaty seems la be - uncommon leature amwns commonly waed The hepatoloxicity of some industrial solvents. especially carbon tetrachloride and chloroform. has been catensively studied. Data concerning liver loxicity : be found also for marfy uther solvents However, the liver luxicity hus in only . few çases been studied relative lo other etfects ul the sulvents In occupational medicine this kind of information is of sumc value as cllects with significance for the establishment ul threshold lumut values ars ul particular interest Several methunds have been und le svahuale luas luver damage in caperimental animals, determination of different liver ene yme d tivilies in serum A raised activity of such enzymes is caused by incrcased leakage of the enzymes through the cell membranes but H is uncer tar whesher shis Icakage is I S an inevi- analyses provide beller quantitative estimales a the extent of necrosis and are casier lo perfurm than micruscopical unnalus ul tissue preparations Though limited necrosis can only be detected microscopic ally. certain enzymes are highly sensitive for liver cell necrosis Korsrud el el (1972. 1973) have shown that sor bitol dehydrogenase (SDH) is such an cnzyme. In studies where different sub Abbreviations uned DMF dimethylformamide SDH. sorbitul dehydrogenase, ALAT. alanine aminotrumsferast LD, lethal doas xix ka LC, leshal centration N : TD, leak does som; TC, loxic concentration 50% Throughous thes - wirsent conteal ( in solvensipend & misture refen le volume percent. A roleme lou ahes miaturs a neglecied.
AND STINA LUNDBERO Beceived Max 2 1984
- a she a ine %
- hepututenk in comperativel - induatrial solventa. a - dum - -
al uues aher . a inhulation caposure
INTRODUCTION
table development of cell
(Zimmerman. 1976) Huwever, the enzyme
411
0013-9151 S1 00 C . - h A - 7 T A - - - - -
2501661843
