H KU2223022

Life Seiences Vol. 15. -dd 1291-1300
Pr anted in the E

Perganon Press

- BOLISM R aromo 3 PYRTE BY KICROSORES FRON
TT a PRECOLANT AND TOTAL MATEM
Irena T. Mang, Bonald E. Ra smunsen, and T. Timothy Crocker*
Cancer Besearch Institute, Univeraity of California, San Prancisco, and Depart-
ment of community and mvironmental Medieine, Univeraity of California, Irvine".
(Received in final form 26 August 1974)
Sumary
Pretreatment of hansters with benzo (a)pyrene (BaP) grestly incressed
the 5 vitre artabol ise of hat s lung alerosonns from prognant hau-
ster : and 3 lewa effect on the metaboli 4 of € A 1iver ateres
momos. A produetion of various mataboliter of Bap b lune niere-
sonos MAF inereaned to different axtentar 3-hydroxy-maP (3-CH-BaP)
was one of the nater mataboliten the netabolic yielda of 9,10-
dihydrodihytroxy-Bar (9,10-diol) and 7,0-diol vere incrensed more
than that of the - 5-diel. Te the ense of 1iver nderosomen, only the
yielde of 9,10-dioi and 7,8-diol ware incresent ovar the contrel
levels, The presence of cyclohexene oxide in the incuba tion mix-
tures decreared the production of the diole. Basal-level anryme
activit Le in placental, fetal 1iver, and fetal ekin microsomer in
matabolizine Rep were very low, Pretrentment of pregmant hana ters
with : indaced RaP-netabolizing enzymes a fotal ierue 2-3 fold.
Bensolalpyrene marl ie a carcinoger and anvironmental cont ans that a
found in eoal tar, mineral oil, car exhaust, tobacce sroke. - kad foode, etc.
a In vitro staties shownt that netabolie activation of Bar ie required for
ita Intaraction with proteine and nuclele acide (2,3). Rarller studien with
rat liver preparations 3 and hanster liver micros (6,7) shoved thas Bar
le mete elised minly 8 phenolie and dihydrodihyfroxy (dielt derivatives, and
3 quinones whieh are ensymatie or air oxidation producte of unstable phenolic
metabolitas is'e) as wall an some unidentified nore polar metabolites, The
reta elies of Rat has generally been neamured b the production of 3-hydroxy
Bar (3-ON-RaP) shich je often i of the major netalo: tes in vitro (31. 3-0H-
DaP ie tosic te sultured calle (9). hut it shown verr listle interaction wi th
DNA in vitro (6) and has not been shown to be carsinocenic. On the other hand,
K-regton epowides ef relate polycyelie aronatic hylrocartone Tail

to cell-

1291