-

SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.
complains associased with the sick building syndrome

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

et al. (1987) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
questionnaire The symptoms were more common .a build.

In a cross-sectional investiganion in one building. office buildings built over the last 05 years with a validased
were measured & a linear analog scale questionnaire. stui where the ventilation system also provided cooling and
Ar the same ame, the micro-environmen (environmental humidification. irrespective of the age of the buildings. A
characteristice in the breathing zone I than area direct relationship berween the level of complaints and air
samples) war characserized by measuring temperanure, quality parameters was nos described. Skov et a (1967) ex-
relacive humidiry, respirable suspended particulases, car. amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern [
bon dioxide, noise level, lighting insensiry, relacive ha- town halls and 11 older control buildings. A I ol symp
midiry, and airflow. No relarionship a seen berwern toma was related 01 "feccing" factor (carpets, upholstery.
the degree of symptoms and age. educarion, or duranion and horizontal surfaces) sad the "macro-moleculer compo
of employmenu a the building or time spent in the build- nent" of dust. They abo demonstrated a relationship between
Sur on a daily basis. Starisnically, complainss were the number of hours spent photocopying and using carbonless
significansly more frequent among smoking men. Eavi- copy paper and the level of complaints. Other srudies have
ronmensal characteristics associased 1 the increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et a 1985)
complaint levels in this group included decreased airfow and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute
models, there war an association berween respirable as- cause of complaints le the sick building syndrome b -
pended particulases and the levels of boch mucous mem- suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et
brane and rystemic complaints. Satisfaction wish she al. (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif.
thermal environment as predicsed by percepaion of I ferences la the concentrations of eaviroamental polutants
R nor clearty contribuse a she degree of rympioms, berween rooms la a mechanically and a naturally ventileted
alshough regression models E I char complains building. They studied the rooms with the I compi
were nor independent of thermal paramesers. Lighting rates and used area samples. Skov et al. (1967) did I
insensiry a also associated 1 complaints. I strate a relationship betweea symptoms and both area -
mudies of the * building syndrome should examine ples measuring dust and a "macro-molecular" fraction. agnin

de

velociry and increased levels of respirable auspended a to indoor air quality complaints

diculases I dry-bulb semperature. In regression

Several studies have attempted to identify the actual

multiple exposures simultaneously and inchude prycho- in area samples.
L measures a idenaify predicsors of complaints in

Area samples in buildings may not X representative of
the exposures a different points in single rooms. Physical
characteristics such a windows and partitions, computers,
and shelving may infuence air currents. Radiant heat may
different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroo-

indoor I
INTRODUCTION

Complaints sermed the d building syndrome" bave lead to unevea distribution of pollutants. Finally. mow t
led to numerous investigations in the last is years. They are hutants resuk from point sources, os they will be diluted as
thought to occur primarily a newty constracted otice I subject .a farther removed from the source. A micro *
inp and, at least in the past, were thought to be due to viroement around desks and within cubicles may have very
wide variety of causes have been identided in specifle settings, ment of building. la addition, all applied occupational and
inctuding inadequate temperature and relative bumidity 8 environmental health rescarch that attempes to relate dose so
trol, noise, lighting. vibration. volatile organic compounds heakh effects - from the problem that I a penerally
and formaldehyde. microorganisms, enviroamental sobecco measured = several points in time and then extrapolated lo
smoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decades
spent and contaminated air and boiler I fibers released * most heakh effects are measured as a I resuk of
from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sampling
< proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnepan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom
et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri- day to day but from hour to hour. such a stratep must fail
(Robertson et al. 1985) was unable to identify differences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the micro-
wet-bulb globe temperature, dry-bulb temperature (temper- environment and set these characteristics in relation o a
ature), relative humidity. air velocity, formaldehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at . given point in i This
itive or negative ons berween several rooms in . building report presents results of cros-sectional investigation of
with natural and a building with mechanical ventilacion. problem building using a self-administered, linear analog.
where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assesment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
E I a Ammant Profesor of Mediane and ol laduscrial and Environmental Heakh Soences at the Unrveruty of Pisburgh Schoota
of Medicine and Publec Heahh. P. Colegy a Director. Environmental Heahh and Safery. Camepie-Mellon Univeruty. Pittsburgh. PA

inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem,

(Kreiss and Hodpson 1964; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986).
marily OI mechanical ventilation. A I proup of authors

results in preater than the difference la average samples, and
No investigations in à peer-reviewed literature have

345p