HKR2228112
SANTA BAR : a : 1

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO

a

14 I nar

to4. - a -
3 a
IAPARIME 7 : SORHINE
January 3, 1977
Dr. William H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Research Toundation
715 Muir Lands Vista May
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. fishman:
and Salk.

1. : a HOMSIN >

a

We are looking fonsard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolia resci rch Locmunity. In particular, the activities of the la Jolla
Cancer Research Founr ation and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes
should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnrent of E focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental
prublems is partizularly ieely. It will be o! g-at ootential importance for
pulling tegetter work by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation,
characteriztaion and deternination of the significance of hunan oncodevelopmental
antigens such as alphafetoprotein and carcinoembryonic antiuens.
One of the goals of the work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship
of increased serusa concentrations of AFP to presalignant lesions or carcinogen
exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model svsters clearly derion-
strate tne t anirals pasodxa to hepatocarcinouens have clevated serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developrant of mslionant tmers. It is hoped that systeratic
study of human scra frum differest sources vill determing if serus AFF concun-
In addition. the role of env rumental factors such as hormonal influences on
the production of oncodevelogimental gene prats can be further explored in
different sy: tens. Such data inplies that (he prod; tion of ohcodavelopmental
gene produci, by tunor cells is net à fixed property of a given tumor but is
He look foncard to working with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the important subjert of ancedeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinosen exposure.

subject to enviroumental controls.

expression.
Best regards,
Stewart Sell, H.D.
Professor
SS/nb