Genetic Epidemiology 5:265-275 (1988)
Estimating Genetic Parameters of Survival Distributions: A Multifactorial Model
Joanne M. Meyer and Lindon J. Eaves
Department of Human Genetics, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond For a number of genetically influenced illnesses, age of onset is correlated between relatives. in some cases, age of onser also serves as an index of an individual's inheritedi liabiliry de an illness. Typically, survival models for age of onset distri- butions do not allow for these effects. W'e have used the gamma distribution as the basis of - model which specifies genetic variabiliry in age of onset. Specifically, we aliow the hazard frequency parameter of the gamma distribution to X a monotonic function of an individual inherited liability io an illness. Simulations under various gamma models indicale that age of onset correlations may be strikingly different from correlations in liabiliry. Maximum likelihood estimation procedures were used to obtain parameter estimates from simulated data sets and to deiermine whether it is possible to discriminate between gamma processes of different order. The resulu for 1,000 pairs of twins (500 monozygotic and 500 dirygotic) gave parameter estimates that were fairly accurate but that decreased in precision as the order of the gamma process increased. We discuss the effect this may have on inferences made about age of onset. Key words: age of onset correlations, survival models. gamma distribution
INTRODUCTION
Genetic analyses of illnesses and behaviors showing a variable age of onset require a knowledge of the cumulative probability of onset by given ages. Some approaches [Weinberg. 1915; Stromgren, 1938; Risch, 1983) derive this probability from prior age of onset distributions. Others (Elston, 1973; Heimbuch et al., 1980; Risch, 1983) estimate parameters of a cumulative age of onset distribution from the data. When the data allow its use, the latter method is more appealing since Received for publication January 11, 1988; revision accepied April 22, 1988.
specific
Address reprine request 1e Joanne Meyer, Deparument of Human Geneties, Bos 33 Medical College of
Virginia, Richmond, VA 23298. 1988 Alan R. Liss, Inc.
