NEW-YORK POST, FRIDAY, MAY 17, 9661 L1 NEWYORKPOST Anevanar oldem contiasonsly pubrished dain newspuper
Anti-smoking skulduggery Imagine this scenario: A scientist who leading claims to have discovered that cigarette Scruggs opponents. insists he didn't smoking poses no danger to human uments. health is about to testify on behalf of the enterod Perhaps the tobacco industry. Suddenly it's revealed clear that he is secretly receiving a salary from
"buy" any doc- not, But unfess he has banking business, # is un- why Scruggs pmom provide Wil- blower: He also represented former latter's legal fees in the event Brown & pay Wigand's legal costa could be inter-
tobacco lawyers. It also emerges that the liams with such substantial "loans." same lawyers have bought the É Moreover, how are reasonable people ta searcher a house and have co-signed two interpret Williams' "salary? car loans for him. In his defense, the sci- This is not the first time Scruggs has entist insists that, except for the salary, been involved with a subsidized whistle- Question: How would the media likely Brown & Williamson executive Jeffrey react? A huge brouhaha to say the Wigand. CBS News promised to pay the The scientist's research, whatever ita Williamson pons Wigand for breaching actual merits, would be buried under a his contract's confidentiality clause dur- mudslide of derision. The tobacco indus- ing a widely reported appearance on "60 L grounds for attempting to buy a wit- CBS lawyers, fearing that the offer to Now let's change a few details. Say the preted as an inducement to break the scientist la a "whisticblower" who asserts contract, initially scotched the segment. that the tobacco industry is fully aware After the substance of Wigand's charges that cigarette smoking is lethal and has hit the newspapers, his interview was The lawyers providing the salary and Meanwhile, the anti-tobacco forces also "loans, rather than working for the to- suffored an embarrassment when a for- bacco industry, are in fact spearheading mer Philip Morris employee recanted tes- There you have the chain of events that. Drug Administration (FDA) actually unfolded recently in a Louisville, Jerome Rivers, a former manufacturing Ky., courtroom. Yet the near-silence sur- supervisor for the conglomerate, with- rounding the incident has been deafen- dréw his claim that Philip Morris rou- Today, one of the few papers to els. (The VUA hoped to use this run the story on Page One, reported that "evidence" to justify Merreli Williams, a former paralegal for a drug.) a law firm representing Brown 3 Wil- Critics incessantly portray the tobacco liamson 000'601$ Tobacco Corp., received n industry nis amoral, even mortgage and other financial "crime" consists in rewards. Williams had made internal uct that millions of selling legal prod- corporate documents available to attor- After these His benefactor was lawyer Richard some of tobacco's foes ethics comes do well 'dn to Scruggs one of the tobacco industry's take a careful look in the would mirror.
it's all just a loan. least. ness.
S would be roundly condemned on ethi- Minutes."
worked to conceal this fact for decades. eventually aired.
the campaign against it.
timony he had given to the Food and tinely measures and adjusts nicotine lev-
ing. USA
tobacco regulating as ita a though Americans enjoy.
neys suing the tobacco companies.
when the subject shenanigans, of it is clear that
-
