DALLAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Texas April 14, 1954
Tobacco Firms New Cancer NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing industry chargod Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers. picture of the relationship e committee issued co causes lung cancer.
Ask Studies growers and tobacco tional" statements linking smoking Among those quoted by the com. and Jung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer United States Gov- ernment, which said h a 1953 k cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of lung caneer for exhaustive research to estab- had not been established. Several lish the basic cause of the disease. ot the institute's scientists also Others quoted were the Damon a booklet con- Runyon Fund, which called for taining previously published state- more research, and Chicago 8 ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgeon Dr. Max Cutler, who itles doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons by other cancer experts that tobac- develop lung cancer partly because may of smoking but that to accept à The earliest, whitten in 1923, sald conclusion of a direct there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientitic relationship and none that would produce tuinors. hazardous." The most recent, dated last March "It smoke la the lungs were 16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of be done before causes of lung can- have had it long ago, canoer, the all cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report Little, The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratory, Bar Har- S January to combat mounting bor, Maine. charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the up of nearly every major cigarette University of Texas School of Medi- manufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Inaur
alded
Inatitute of the
The tobacco industry research were cited.
we'd a
can a establisbed.
director of the Roscoe B, Jackson ance Company and British authar- ities, Neariy all those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until an absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report sem described à an industry spokesman as an # terim" statement, nouncement pending ane of the choice of 4 prominent scientist to supervise basic cancer research de be fi- nanced by the industry. That scien- tist wall decide how the industry's cancer-research money is to be spent, No date has been set for his selection. At the last count, the committee said, there were more than 850 cancer research grants 5 the United States alone, "any one of which might produce evidence to unlock the secrets of lung cancer,
ILO 138765
