CORESTA 1982 SYMPOSIUM
ABSTRACT FORM

AUTHOR(s) (indicate presenting author):

J. G. Nepomuceno (presenting), A. G. Kallianos, J. E. Wickham, and A. E. Stagg
Philip Morris Research Center, P. 0. Box 26583, Richmond, Virginia, 23261
TITLE OF PAPER: REFINEMENTS TO THE FTC PROCEDURE FOR THE QUANTITATIVE

AFFILIATION AND ADDRESS:

DETERMINATION OF TPM IN CIGARETTE SMOKE

STUDY GROUP:
ABSTRACT TEXT:

A lightweight and disposable filter holder assembly used in the collection
of total particulate matter in cigarette smoke was developed as a replacement
for the currently used Lucite filter holder. Not only are these new holders
lighter in weight 55 grams versus 27 grams for the Lucite holder) but the
inconvenient and time-consuming steps of washing these holders in an alcohol
During the development of these holders, it was noted that certain types
of materials, including Lucite, were very sensitive to changes in the moisture
content of the environment resulting in highly variable TPM results. These
variations become most significant for extremely low yield cigarettes where
negative TPM deliveries have been frequently encountered during the
negative TPM result indicates a loss of weight of the filter assembly during
the smoking procedure. These negative numbers have been obtained even when
the filter pads were clearly stained by the smoke particulate phase indicating
that something was collected during the smoking process. Therefore, the
apparently negative TPM deliveries must be a result of an artifact in the smoke
particulate matter collection procedure. Experimental data are presented
showing that the observed artifact is primarily due to some phenomenon
the surface of the filter holder during, but extraneous to, the particulate
matter collection process. This phenomenon is shown to be attributable to
the inherent property of certain materials, including Lucite, to

bath and drying prior to subsequent use are also eliminated.

A

analysis.

at
and

occurring
adsorb
easily

desorb moisture from the environment.

In order to minimize the observed bias in the TPM results and thus allow
for the collection of more meaningful data, a lightweight and disposable holder
made out of polypropylene and polystyrene was developed. In addition to the
obvious advantages of being lightweight and disposable, experimental evidence
was presented showing that a negative bias which becomes significant at low
TPM delivery levels is el iminated through the use of these holders because
of their inherent insensitivity to moisture fluctuations in the environment.

80.

19

- - 1 . i

-

L - 1