-9- 4
Makersof Cigarettes ClaimNolnterestin MaN; YORK A Ciga TONE TOBACCO company rette manufacture Tuesday official noted that the staff say chey have no nterest in report recommendation was diversifying to market mari- te legalize marijuana for per- juana, despite aft réport suoR over 18 years of age of the National Commission might be a lower age brack- on the Causes and Preventlon ol Violence Mffich Precom- *aet ushata of mends legalization "pot" adults. for "No, no no,tno, A years and thet gave "B caase to check There is no at proach to this anywhere: - the pderground - doesn't carry story about at L how tobacco companies ares gearing 5 for the marifuana trade, doed.James Bolling. vice president and assistant chairman Philip Morris, WE a * He' PEES. arquaze this type of speculation was - under- standable, me, tobacco com- panies aré publicly beld, and Japun strict goverriment con- trol; no one can eved remote- ly become loyolved because at the present dme mari- juana la illegal. - à There have been persistent stories that tobaccoo com- panies already have regis. tere d a possible brand namea trademarks that in- clude some of the current ve- nac ular associated with marijuana, and that they have been buying up huge tracts ol land in Mexico on which to harvest marijuana. wisenweru "WE'RE NOT filing for trademark names like 'Aca- pulco Gold' or buying land south of the border, core mented obr a
N
Pot
while the biggest market à - "Mary Jane sort of goes 1 the youngsters, com- mented Sam Fouts. advertis- ing manager for Larus Bros. been a rumor or PH, last (wo & Co., o Ricbmond, Va. an Jane is an old nick. thoroughly. pame for marijuana but gen- - has fallen a erally industry. among the young. Mas 3 William Kloepler: of the To: U a Fouts, noting that mari- bacco Institute, declared. 5 Ma juana la "still a rather taboo h SE "THERE ISNT P month topic" emphasized that his goes by thafsome segment. of dustry, "wouldn't touch it company : press
Into disuse in the cigarette in-
Inc.
