BOULDER DAILY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

Areastores

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For tha Delly Camera
nors.
kids.
kH,

referring to the increased enforce-
Auguad Tur selling tobacco to. ml
tried to Ang Une cigarelles. The

mont.

Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky enougb.to
nesses this week during a crack. getcaught N sued summons
doun on selling cigarettes 01 mi- to appoar LE court. Thc. maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve -noris a 002S. fine
of- the American Cancer Soclety's The Suna involved two tcams.
Great American Smokeout, was in- Each included a uniformed 'omcer.
tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain çlothes ouncer. and two
legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School Sirts, who
Police targeted Ras stations, -005 .SLIS parenis signed a waiver al.
venience, drug, grocery and dis. lowing them to take parfinthc.op-
law has never been enforced, said The juvenlles were told not to
Jopinog Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
"We're letting the stores know had to show identification.

count "saums inun recently. the eration.
this io going to happen," ahc sald,

the cigareites. and, if asked. they
(Sce BOULDEN Page 3C)

Boulder police sting stores
for cigarette sales to minors
At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry
28uh SL, one of the girls asked when she was issued a Sum.
the cashler for a pack of Mart mons, ous naid she was a stur
boro Lights. Officer Rob Hauke- dent and couldn atord the
ness, In plain clothes, poops in court costs. Haukeness pou "01
-ine-hehinind her to witness thç 9100VAR hér, saying she -Pinoo
A placard near the cash regis. the Distriet Attorney to do cam
ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity acrvice instead of paying A
clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clorks, not the store owTi:
cation. The buyer produced lier ers ot manugers, have to pay the,
she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l du it to .ustund
ed at the license, act it down on stores or clerks, she said. "Al-:
the counter. and sold her the though, when you scc clerks
Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted "ST
stepped dn and identified him atoros and clerks et but four
self as a police officer. Manka recelved summonses.
came In and wrote the clerk a This wock'a
trartA., I see chem ask for an year. Tha first sting, conducted
E I think they're going to 2 in September, targeted 16 stores:
fuse the cale," Haukeness sald. and ST clerks received sum:

(From Page 1C)

The clerk at Colony Market,

transaction.

Atquepad work out a deal-with:

No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ane,
driver's license, which showed court costs.

cigarettes.
summons.

ing, you might think otherwse -2k13 -
was the:
operation
secund tobacco sale stine this

"But they never do."

monses.

0949905100