NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A to woo Dade campaign County teenagers away from smoking la under way bere as part of a nation-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groupe, the society hopes to persuade - large pro- portion of the nation's young people that amoking may Jead Key urapon la the m palgn, le nire strip detalling a rase against tobacen, It hus already I showa te 5 enth graders le 13 achools de educational televinion, and will 1 brnadeant tn minth Krade arience students ta the The sev enth-grade program, directed à teacher Bill Evana, inchuded a panel discussion h which students directed ques. tiona at Dr. Francis N. Cooke, representing the society. , Teachers I have talked to agree that although smoking la not - serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu. dents are approaching the age when the problem will be faced," Erene said. a value a the nimstrips E * gives studenta logleal argument with whleh ithey eeald I te i * . when rneauraged by th eir adrele et frienda, be added. The Aim atrip la also being shman - to senior a achools in the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October 9, 1960
Education
Cuts Fag
Youth Habits
54
American eigaret moking ean be reduced * per cent through teenage education program .a & high schools. These statistics were presenled Saturday b Walter G. James, director ol public educalion for the American Cancer Society, here for the Florida Division, ACS, annual meeting I said a I mt program : directed at leenagers as a I fer "curbing cancer becsue a the sodety's eseviction that snoking - I e fatal lung a proepects of reducing cigaret moking by one-fifth were abona s - pilot program conducted with 27.000 high achool atudents e Purtland, Ore, 1 ade a Budenta I perents I ene I kely to 1. Smoking increased la the successive * school grades. Among boys Sumplond in the Oregon arvey, 143 pes cent smoked as freshmen. 1.2 per eent as sophemores. 31.1 per eent as juniars, end 35. as I A correspond- Jue figures for girt stadenta were 4.6 per A 10.6 per cent, 1 or the students, 2ss per cent a the boys smoked regularty at least enre 1 a did 114 per cent ol the girts 4 Education programs againat smoking reduced the number of new umokers I boys from u per ceit to 1.7 & cent, and beginning girl mokers from 14 to 1.r PROGRAM ETFECTIVE I eaid the figures projected ever - four-ygar peried indicaled that & per eent P high school etudents could be deterred from Surpour through the ACS educational program: A stody, a i revealed that the moet affactive approach was in showing the leng term elfect * moting. leaving the decision s a E + C Least ellective, he related - f eimple instruction not * 1 a part * ib anti-smaling edunation I a ACS a devised a Aim drip Thatrating alfecta a he habit for acreming a : school claseroons. -
to cancer.
at the Lagu. Mar Hotel cancer. doaure
a
apring.
- a eigaret dabit.
3 per cent and * per rent.
per cent.
: :
Marn
20/0022686
