PKU put
Carcinogenesis vul 15 nu a rp.2721-2725, rool
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butandne and benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
C3420
chemopreventive agents
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Health Foundation. Valhalla, NY 10595, USA
models examined to date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the A/J mouse because previous
The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have showa that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against Jung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression 01 by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-py. 1)-1-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastric adeaud (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a aumber of intraperitoneal injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis Aq NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and 17,12-dimethylbenzialanthracene (9,10). either 9 or 12 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse to evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The i.g. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4.11,12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse car be replicated because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injectionsite and associated mortality. A dose response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/1 mouse and F344 ral (11,13) mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens This may not he realistic with respect 01 tobacco of 24 jumol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important Comparisons of NNK and BaP given individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (11. when given by the i.g. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either wcre complicated by local tumor formation and mortalits. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP. The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 jumol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. in addition, the model should he relatively rapid and subdoses ig., with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive Therefore. we examined tumor yields obtained dosing. This reginen induced 10.524.4 lung adenomas/ upon trentment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen. 8 weeks, followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethylisothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung prelimiaary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP. thls study provide a convenlent model for assessing the NNK was synthesized in the Amedeas Health Foundation Organie Synthesis efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. Its purity was established A HPLC as >997. BaP (98% purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which Amencan Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirt containing 5% corn oil. a previously 2 play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups ef 15 as sammarized in Table L At ase 7 weeks each mouse was kers: auouving-1-(1ApuaSOSujAupousu) (NNK") treated by intraperitoneal (ipa injection or by intragastric gavage 5 with and benzolalpyrenc (BaP) a NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical is 0.1 ml comonseed oil. NNK and BaP were both carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in the 0. E used for treatment. Injections and gavages were carrind 6 *Abbrovintions: NNK. 44mabylairosaminos-f3-tpuldylel-bunene indivituat dose was cae -eighth of the total. Equimolar doses ef NNK and aar, benzolelpyrene: PEITC, phenethyl isothiocyanale: BITC, benzyl Baf were used in most of ihe combination groups, because the amounts of
whlch these 01s) tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
Most previous studies in the A/) mouse have examined We sought to develop a model which could be used o
5.9= 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
BITC (989 purity) and PEITC (935 purity) were abtained from the Aldrich Chemical Cempany (Milwaukre. wti Cottonseed oll was purchased from Female A/J mice. age > weeka wene obtained fiom The Jackson Laboranory (Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the The desiga of the bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1 A mice were divided out for & consecutive weeks. The total doses are given in Tuble L Each NNK and total carcinogenic polycyelic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke are
Sigma Chemical Co (St Louis, MO).
Introduction to
agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
isothiocyanaie, n intraperitoncal, 4 introgastric gavage.
o Ouford Unversity Press
2721
