7
Polluted LE HE
by Samuels. Epstein Theauhor surveys the record of industri-generated data kwalatmg enaden shuns thar aur ames un data- from Khas madequan biased muerpretation. ma mpulatnon. suppresshm and even le outrighi de stm Inm-at commomplace. espes ially when prohtable te hnologirs are muhed. Alarmingh. suh et adens a Thow jushirs strong reservations as 10 dhr salabn of ann data developed hn institutions EPT indeuluab shune numumin intetests are dueith on Information - be muens of exonumi and pulanal pumer Deunann-making al all levels a gm. erament sanaklmant the maulalahts of a buds of m- lurmanon. SHI the lann of whis h the relatise merits of ahernate poln 5 an he anah à and sunsidered. = thn mlun matam ent data base is 3 nushed ur imal wl shen nhatert de ni a ate tran hed raus alsube unpnt a malal threatenng the laban of demm The merwhrlming talk of all beneht and tisk dana. en whn h nust tegulaton des siuns are hased. tumes frem dar mulunur ws thenehes bemg legulat. ed Theve data ate eithet generated and mtet pteted mesand unnersmes unden soma - mdusus aud desepement and murkeng departments.
mehes tly alles sed
JJER gorimment
4 - 8 a
Buli into thn press 1 - sadre of sonsulanis, matunes, whuse Mamp of wuddr al pronides the of theve consultans are often hidden not hur alsu ftom ther own unner
h
In m-hune 4 wote stall an he anr ul lalana generalh from presigeus unneruties or researe In-lune wentsh sull * nut mmmune to son data wnh an addummal manile ef authorin The Hatin les hunn then produn a jin es unter sum sitre of instutuns The mdusural mteress of thew ne Indunul amma in a mualls anaisled s umsuliants ate ethet nAN din lased to the agens IN's unh - commets sal lalunatornes and unnersues, E nhine astsoers and espen tommitires thev si. anlem lads lung lus Isen sode ned en de upen in a de darsualls mamtained m undedemal haudh : dem with the ethn b's lat's luh at len ane hnter in diar from : 4 - un un une ter ungsken preaurs Comstrann in thr Girnnatum e Delu and may jueslun mfen mation en mten prenarms - new umm ou problem wath mdustrall gen.
and sule ony ann
froms teseare h
> anas
ad esures
identes ans unh from the
publu
market, pranc idsompennersapualou unsstent
the farl ol in purpramedn enurommental sanes
Ihe a a tes rager for the awand el funur auh nhu praened the coma mng mulun eurn theugh peteepam a mants hkeh - refiet shun-serm, e dhan lu gotem. mtetests and salues - Modual ! in Ang- A 3 * suena la - : Hur ali puhina hn 1 Ponam hn menting poatuh In
a du al mtetess etated thn lumed tat- 4 furthre
data n a thr malegun lind and Dhng
town emed le prm qualns Derph ed dau sulumated in 1967 te de Adman a DA) In indusurs m malden ol haul addane petitions, then (ommus sinne Hetlent Les complamed Aluant hallof the phe : hase mat mlequich umpponed regula
Suma pata . Matom e prandaphom a - a - fewd addene prtam a ngmally sulmmer - she hul I i ul d Sulest et E Heuk snetan ef a Foun Jul Dug Admmstatatue hne hern me om-
sbu the arten hane tegm ed suhr
Hen tequrursland
