LOS ANGELES TIES
Los Angeles, California
October 20, 1954
nn been proved,
lale
I'niversity

hairil uudn the premine that hination n' a partirular type
nonection hetw een riga in each of : aree categorics
reti smokingand disease ha: has alrcady produced a sale
Might Take Six Months one it is. so all can be made
Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. 1f not, the research
who was in charge ol the most Dr. Carrence Cook Littie,
compiete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad-
date, said that "some AES we visnrv board and scient-fic di.
should wait for more defini- rector of the Tobarro Indus-
ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would
nne has said just what the de. produre some of "the defni-
finitive evidence wou'd be." tive evidence" to wetch Dr
He sad he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In nie alk in the Ameriran "We wiil tackle simultan
system was more important, line of the industrv's research
migh: prove surcessful in six do not have todav the
months, arith iuck, he said menta! evidence rhat e - per-

cigarette If so, scientific re-
search should prove which
should find one, "since
ple like to smoke cigarettes.
trs Research ('ommittee, de-
seribed the mutlines of stud-
Tackle Unknawns

Expert Calls
Safe'
Cigarettes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming

for

atatistician

-oad

tive evidence before develop-

NEW YORK. Ort. 19 (IP) this viewnoint,

The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Societs meeting. De eously mans of the unknowns
arette smoking with b ot h Hammond said the relation- in this field of tobaccn use in
lung cancer and heirt dis. ship nf rigare:te smoking to relation to human health, te
ease is "overw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out-
something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitive
once about developing "a safe health, than the relationshin findings in ue area where
cigarette à a leading statisti- to lung cancer. 1 program to much suggesaive work has
cal scientist told the annual find e. safe cigarette" from been done. The program nf
meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recognizes tha: a a
tific advisory board of the There are various types of garding the cause and effect
Tobacco Industry Research tnhacen, there are varinus relationshap hetween erv rom.
Committee ansounced some of types of Alters, and these are mental factors, includ n -
the details nf Sts scicatific re- varinna techn'ques n! curing The most important
srarch program 18 hich is tobaren, he said, and le may aet up was a dirert scudy procect of

Cancer

experi-

Society today.
At the xame time the scien-

Outlines Deseribed

mit scientifie conclesions re.
smoking and lune cancer
lung cancer rase: a
10 medical centers in the : n I
ed States and Canada,

he thar some fortuitors com- current
LOS ANGELES EXAMINER
los Ange les, California
October 20, 1954

It will include numerous
studles of humans, including
emotional habits of smokera,
se well as tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspeets
of the research were disclosed
today. à apecifio research
grants, financed the
will be announced later.

HEALTH STUDY
NO

TOBACCO
NEW YORK, Oct. 19.- $
< broad stx point study seek
Ing knowledge whether eigareta
or other forms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health haz.
ards was announced today.
It is the first announcement
of big research program
headed by the selentifie ad.
visory board of the Tobacco In.
dustry Research Committen

b TIRC,

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062