May 16 "96 8:44
P.11
Tribune Chicago
MAY. 16 1996
Philip Morris, UST offer plan to curb teen use of tobacco Proposal would prohibit FDA regulation, ban 'loosies' and vending machine salès
By Barbara Sullivaa TRIBUNE STAFF WATER Philip Morris Cos. and UST Inc. two jo the largest tobacco companies. went on the ollen- aive Wednesday, proposing sweeping legislation to curb teen tobacco use. The proposals, which would include a ban on vending machine and single-cigarette isales and Impose curbs on advertising. go further than restrictions sought by the Food and Drug Administration, the companies said. The quid pro quo, however, is that the FDA be prohibited from any regulation of tobacco prod- ucts. "It there's FDA involvement. the deal is not on the table, said Ellen Merio. Philip Morris USA senior vice president of corporate affairs. are not meant as a compromise, and restricting tobacco usage. this is a solution. beneficial
3/1
AUR Meaant
2 phoso Steve Parrish. a Philip Morris Cos. senior vice president. at a is the biggest which have not yet received would include a $250 million however. sa w the tobacco pro- blatant smoke screen to keep "They realtze that the FDA is most serious about protecting LE the tobacco industry). and they Suz CIGARETTTS. PAUE 2
a 7410 U4
Merlo also said the proposals news conference Wednesdav. or Grst step toward rapproche- pany and UST ment. with the government's maker of snuff and chewing mounting push toward regulating tobacco. The two companies "This goes way beyond a com- support from other tobacca promise." Merlo said. "We think companies, said their proposal Merlo said further that the industry fund spent over a five- proposals are so comprehensive year period to help implement that unilateral action by Philip the legislation. Morris- and UST would not be Some anti-smoking advocates, "We couldn't implement these posals as nothing more than a actions on our own. withoist leg. islation, she said. "tf only one the FDA out of the picture. or two companies participated. there would be no impact." Philip Morris. maker of Marl- kids from the blandishments (of horo cixarettes anong others, the world s biggest tobacco com.
