WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRIBUNE
D. 25,605
S. 49,326
WACO METROPOLITAN AREA
MAR S i963

F.C Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard- Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission froni going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it
does not scem right or logical that onc medium of
advertising be furbidden the producer w hile
newspapers, magazines, billboards and cou ntc -
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expectod to review the FCC proposal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
Jung 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC said it is proposing to refuse Jicenses
o broadcasters who carry cigarette advertisice
because of evidence that smoking is injuriour to health
and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public
interest. This in nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals to do
as they please so long as thcy don't harm another.
Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that il you don't mention something, maybe it wou't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democret, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Con-
merce Com.mitice, said in reference to the proposed
FCC rule that the ngency had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has
any right 0) tell an advertiser what he could not
say in his advertisements, Rogers said Congress will
take a cluse Icok at the whole question of regulations
on television and radio advortising content, not ouly
as to the Federal Communications Commission but
in regard to Federal Trade Commission practices as
The stakes involved extend beyond the business
of broadcasling. They go to the heart of whether
government burcaus Pinous he allowed to go beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Healdi."

hurt you and will disappear.

57
98221804

well.

tho limits of due process and the law,