996
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richard L. Nacye, MD, and Woodrow S. may var y in incidence and S-omerset Countirs of
Findings Dellinger, MS the men hnd ever
Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one pationt to another. In found to correlate well with quantitative, measurements of € the volume of macules and nodules. recognition of emphysemo and chronic cor miners with no roentgenographic with silica and collagen,
process but a a study of 77 miners of pestmortem anatomic dioxide)and collagen content of dust évidence of pncumoconiosis had
rank, low-volatile cost in Cambrin and rylcania. Nonc of eentral l'en- d urted betwern 19re and 19-35 ly the Pennsylvanin Deportment of Miner End Mineral Indartries stowed ar siliea cuntent of cral ant is low in all arein nf Fenneyis . neklom lelng greater iban $.. H owever, the mine durt coneettra t: in of free nilica In greater for sonee . ieerrruund workets ruch as nol lo 4 * or enrounter nt.abeearing The 77 cascs pulverin * rand, selerted B te keatd (almnn :k- ly authera, wherisited ench of ryven pirpose E -neral hospital, and rea. every au- J protorul lnvohe a man T thmn 21 rrara et age in di-d parumormiinsis l- twern 196U aml 1:is The is tu determine i paru- t . easen atarted with the Aatch patmn sonie workers withenst asruristed Tir U descriptiuns the lung Wh.n rrr was any mentiou of eve - .ment, parenehy mal nedul * Nin or any histury of mining. the 1 nt'n clinical chart - 1n- eran.igd,, a were estace A as inrludel in the >tudy unly trvagatien: expueee cre- unel le speeil. minrs tard "ail hhll re:tive umatimn Irbplam tim à E wnenhtaineed : moceninur Nn u A Del 3 223 027050
bituminous
coal, roentgenographic categories for
pneumuconiosis were esined anthracite roal. Surveyr ron- roentgenepyaphic ing shift of exposure jer werk- with dyspnea. A munber of eRA, Tie free biturinnes work-
nodules, and (2) the silica (silicon pulmonary dust macules and emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspnea in addition lo dust rom 10: to 46- of Appulachian chitis and coal workers have roentgeno- lur, graphie evilenee of pneu- symptoms, and physiral findinge lave been diliralt to make, early stages. erpecially in tions to disability." h is the There dificulties prob of the rurrent ably arie from the faet that roal workers' pneummconiosis r"black ographie featurye of lung" is not R single disenne prores Another aim but a composite uf multiple disorders, and severity, dependent upon gro entgenographic gruphie aren, exort orrupat lonal 3 posure, and opmarnt indiridual sus- ceptibility. These multiple -
Unfertunately, there was poor
verage coal dunt d.
which appear to be most closcly correlated pulnonaie, the tnu ciscrciers ebbk font of uir 11.ru,,00 fur partdes per
macules
hronchiolitis;(3) erntriluhu- 4 Jters and eledrie Inemedive panlolular, and paracleatsicial : who drill inte separate di-rave prireses 1l rough R search ef sualy tn evalate tliiir L à ruritgenn alnormalities Patients Studied and Methods frum l'nney kania andl West Vir- ginia, Thir:y-one h.. lew-rank nerly nerthrn K.. Vi,,iniia TI. ether 4i had alvay, mimm d highrr PUBLICATIONS
meconlusia, hut c relatiuns between emphysema: and G3) tuierruludin aue such reentgenurrepiie abnormalitics, orasiinally other di rar preeesers,
There
appear to make distering riitaibu- - indiividull influences eu the
that a
each of which may vary in inridehre muconiunis with dinalility esirta iu girts
ende Indudd(111te primary coal dust Patiruts The patients werr 77 un- nr. infermatinn
macule; (2) silivoris (3) ehrunic bran- dergronne miners et hiteminuur enal li am! wthr data eneerning nupa
Femm thy n n hpann rxt-- M+-n . C. Hanty Steleal mit,, Repri i - L Cesit Rerdn.. 4 teu t 3 JAMA, Apral or 1972 . Vol 220, 2
mined ulway oal in remntie
I ritt Culle . # - i Nens.huniss 1-r-rr State of suthw high-valatil- ettern
lonneskaniia or iu ro: srmme ly - q-trllde I-tn
10346287
