May 16 "96 8:44
P.11
Tribune Chicago
MAY. 1 6 1996
UST
Philip Morris,
offer plan to curb teen use of tobacco Proposal would prohibit FDA regulation, ban 'loosies' and vending machine salès
By Barbara Sullivaa TRIBUNE STAFF WATT Philip Morris Cos. and UST om)""ur 2 the largest 03OE991 companies. went on the oulen- sive Wednesday, proposing sweeping legislation to curb teen tobacco use. The proposals, which would include a ban on vending machine and single-cigarette saies and Impose curbs on advertising. go further than restrictions sought by the Food and Drug Administration, the companies said. The quid pro quo, however. is that the FDA be prohibited from any regulation of tobacco prod- ucts "It there's FDA involvement the deal is not on the table, said Ellen Merlo, Philip Morris USA senior vice president of afTairs. corporate Merlo also said the proposais news conference Wednesday are not meant as a compromise, or Orst step toward rapproche- pany and UST is the biggest inet. with the government's maker of snuff and chewing mounting push toward regulating tobacco The two companies and restricting tobacco usage. "This sa03 way beyond a com- support from other tobacca promise," Merlo said. "We think companies. said their proposal this is a solution." Merlo said further that the industry fund spent over a five proposals are so comprehensive that unilateral action by Philip the legislation Morris- and UST would not be Some anti-smoking advocates beneficial "We couldn't implement these posals as notbing more than a actions on our own. without leg- islation," she said. "tr only one the FDA out of the picture. or two companies participated. there would be no impact." Philip Morris. maker of Mari- kids from the blandishments (of among others. Is the tobacco industry). and they boro cigarettes the world' s biggest tobacco -1100
3/1
N la
Steve Parrish. a Philip Morrs Cos. senior vice president, at a which have not yet received would include a $250 million year period to help implement however. saw the tobacco pro- blatant smoke screen to keep "They reatree that the FDA is most serious about protecting Sar CIGARETTTS. PACE 2
