SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H. ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
P. Collopy, M.E., C.L.H.
et al. (1967) investigared the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire The symproms were more commos .s build-
In e cross-sectional invesngation in one building. office buildings built over thr last 50 years with a validased were meacured on e linear analog scale questionnaire dur where the ventilation system also provided cooling and Ar the same time the micro-environment (environmental humidification. irrespective of the a of the I A characteristics in the brearhing zone rather than area direct relationship berween the level of complaints and air samples) & characierized by mearuring temperanure, quality parameten : not described. Skov et al. (1987) ex- relacive humidiry, respirable suspended perticulases, car. amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern I bon dioride, noise level, lighaing inuensiry, relacive ka- towm halls and 1 older control buildings A kevel of symp midiry, and airflow. No relarionship I seen benwer tomm was related to . "feecing" factor (carpets, upholsery che degree of symptoms and age, educarion. or duration and horirontal surfaces) sad the "macro-moleculer compo of employment at the building or time spent in she buiid- nent" of dust. They aiso demonstrated . relationship between hn on a daily basis. Starisrically,, complaines were the pumber of hours spent photocopying and using carbonles significandly more frequens among Supoous men. Envi- copy paper and the level of complaints. Other stdies bave ronmenial characteristics associased wich te increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et a 1985) complaint levels in this group included decreased airflww and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute models, chere was an association between respirable a cause of complaints is the sick building syndrome by I pended parriculates and the levels of boch muccuu mom suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertoon et brane and rystemic complaints. Satisfaction wish she F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. I environment a predicted by perception of draft ferences is the concentrations of environmental pollutant did I clearty contribuue Q she degree of symptomss, berween rooms in a mechanically and a naturally veutilsee mudies of dhe sick building syndrome I examine ples measuring dust and . "macro-molecular" traction.
complaints associared with the "sick building syndrome
velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended i to indoor air quality complaints.
riculates and dry-bulb semperanure. In regression alshough regression models E suggest t comy were not independent of thermal parameters. insensiry I also associated 1 complaints. Fu L measures to idenaify predictors of complaints in
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual building. They studied the rooms with the I comple rates and used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did demor strate relationship between rymptoms and both Area samples is buildings may not X representative of the exposures in different points in single rooms. Physical characteristics 1 : windows and partitions. computens. and sbelving may infuence air currents. Radiamt heat -ar different exposure characteristics thao tbe macro-enviroe
area -
I exposures simultaneously and include prycho in 5 samples.
indoor I INTRODUCTION
Complaints termed the E building syndrome" bave lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally. mout x led to pumcrous investigations in tbe last is years. ê are hutants resuk from point sources, s they will X diluted - thought os occur primarily S newty constructed oticce build- subject .n farther removed from the source. A micro : inp and, at least .n the past were thought to be & to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very wide variety of causes have been identided .s specific settings, ment of a building. In addition. all applied occupational and inctuding inadequate temperature and relative bumidiry coo- environmental bealth rescarch A sttempes to relate dose o trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds beakh effects suflers from thr problem that doee i penerally and formaldchyde. microorganisms, environmental sobecco mearured i several points in time and then extrapolated - smoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications a decades spent and contaminated air and boiler fumes. fbers released while most healt effects are messured as a single resuk of from duct linins. and a machine offgases I odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sa A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where thr level of symptoms may change not merely trom et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to bour, such stratep most fail. (Robertson e al. 1985) was unable to identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-qualiry parameten in the micro wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (semper- eavironmeat and stt thex characteiittics in relation o the ature). relative humidiry. air velocity, formaldebyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at . pven point in I This tiive or nepative ions between several rooms in . building report presents resul of cros-ssctionnal investigation of - with natural and . building with mechanical ventilation. problem building using . sel--administered, tincar analog. where both - of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom # I . Amitan Profemor of Medicnne und ol Indescrial and Environmental Heakh Soences at the Univerury of X of Medicine and Publc Heahh. ' f . Director, Enviroomental Heakh and Salery. Camepe-Mellon University. Pictsburgh :
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Nevertheless,
(Kreiss and Hodpson 1984; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986). marily to mechanical ventilation A same proup of authors
results is greater than the difference .n average samples, No investigations in the peer-reviewed litersture have
Schoot
S
