True-raise Questlons S the Chenistry and Psychophys lology of Odor and Flevor
1. H F Sone nodern workers suggest that nccurate nnnsurement of vibratlona!
frequency (in the for infrared, for exanple) of an unknown odorant
wili permit prediction of its quallty and intensity.
T . No lenentel substance, not even halides or ozone hos eny odor; Instead
they react with the mucose forning new products which are smelied; but
Sone odorants have steric or vibretional propertles which force the
concluslon that they are odor less whon they are net
11, - F Present evldence strongly suggests thet different parts of the olfactory
receptor ares, Ilke the retina In the eye, ere qua iity-sppccfic.
TF Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor
TE No one yet has a -rr clue as to the criticel relation between the
molecule and the receptor which permits en odor perception.
T The greater the secretion rate of nucous or selive, the higher their pH,
and both pH and temperature influence the quallty of sensation in the
111 H F The ideal Instrumental detector would respond to odors in the seue
quantitative range as doon an animal or human sub ject.
1 - Such an Ideal detector hes not been developed.
> : I-aan observors with head In fixed position can by virtue of the two
indopondent nostrils easily discern stereo snall effects, 1.e. they
can tell whotier aue odoront is at the right or lef hand, mcch es one
uses his twe ears in locating the source of sound,
TF for certain musk-like compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to
trigger - humon offactory response.
Adeptation oi one olfactory qunlity does not significantly reduce
sensitivity to any other dissimilar quality, but dors reduce sensi-
fiiity to all sinllor quelities.
- By employing sini lerities nethod of compering qualitles, one con now
obtain identity and degrees of difference without recourse 2 troble-
à T Hunger lorers thresholds stightly to some food qualities but not for
1F In is now possibie to ioentify the intensity and quality of certain
given stimull simply by expert examination of the electrophysiologice
record taken from approprlate odor or taste neuroos
TF Electrical stimuletion of taste in man yields only reports of "sour"
and a "metallic" or "alkalind" quality.
H F Direct etectrical stimulatlon of the olfactory se . has
successfully accompilshed.
Although total anosela is rare In humans and ageusio even rarer, there
is evidence thet In analogy to color vision deficiences, some
are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while having norna
sensitivity to others.
Topical anesthetics appiled to the fengue . hr n that different que Ities
- Certain endocr ine disense entitles make Ir possible for some people
quite sensitively to "snell" such "odor less" substances es sucrose or
sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both teste and odor can be
reduced to noneal by manipulation of endocrine levels.
- Premenopause wonon at the fime of ovulation fInd certain odors
disegreeable whlle at other fimes in the menstrunl cycle these à de or

sone elements possess taste.

surface In order to be see led.

chenica! senses.

v.

sone words.
others.

yer beon
people

VII,

50297

of toste disappear at different rates.

they wil Judge quire pieasent.