DALLAS MORNING NEWS
Dallas, Texas
April 14, 1954

Tobacco Firms
New Cancer
NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing
Industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers.

Ask
Studies
growers and tobacco
toonal" statements linking smoking Among those paponb by the com-
and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer
Institute of the United States Gov-
relationship of ernment, which said is a 1953 k
cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of lung caneer
for exhaustive research to estab- had not been established. Several
lish the basie cause of the disease. ot the institute's scientists aiso
The tobacco industry research were cited.
Others quoted were the Damon
issued a booklet con- Runyon Fund, which called for
taining previously published state: more research, and
ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgeon Dr. Max Chicago Cutler, who
ities doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons may
by other cancer experts that tobac- deveiop lung cancer partly because
ot smoking but that to
The earliest, whitten in 1923, said conclusion of a direct relationsldp accept
there were irritants in tobacco but ie all cases is "unscientific and
none that would produce turnor. hazardous.
The most recent, dated last March 1I. smoke in the lungs were a
16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of
be done before causes of lung can- have had it long ago," canoer, the
cer or any other kind of cancer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report
The tobacco committee, formed Memorial
in January te combat mounting bor, Maine, Laboratory, Bar Har-
charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the
up of nearly every major eignrette University of Texas School of Medi-
manufacturer and organizations eine, the Metropolitan Life Inau

sided picture of the
committee

Can-
3
we'd all
Jackson

co causes lung cancer.

can be established.

director of the Roscoe B, Little,
ance Company and British author-
ities, Neariy all those quoted
agreed that no conclusions çould be
reached until an absolute cause for
lung cancer has been established
The report was described by an
industry spokesman as 5 "in-
terim" statement, pending an-
nouncement of the choice of a
prominent scientist to
basic cancer
supervise
research to be n-
nanced by the industry. That scien-
tist will decide how the industry's
cancer-research money is to be
spent, No date has been set for his
selection.
At the last count, the cormitttee
said; there were more than 831
cancer research grants in the
United States alone,
which
"any onr nf
might produce evidence to
unlock the secrets of lung cancer,

01