1KB2223022

Life Sciences Vol. 15. PP: 1291-1300
Printed in the 4.5.A.

Perganon ress

-

or Rn ta PYRD BY KrCRosnur FROK
TIS or PRPIIANTT aNn F rAr ATEN
Irena T. Mang, Bonald E. Ra smurren and T. Timothy Crockert
Cancer Rreearch t itute, Univeraity of Californis San Franeieco, and Depart-
-mn of Cormunity ard A nvironmental Medieine, Univeraitr of California, Irvine".
(Rereived in final form 26 August 1974:
summryy
Pratreaterat of hansters with benzo (a)pyrene (BaP) grestly Incressed
the in vitre -rtabol ier of PAr by lung alere aome from prognant he
stare, and 3 leve effect on the metaboli - of Bap by 1iver miere-
-mmee - The produetion of various metabolites of Rap by lune miere-
dthytrodihytrooy--at (9,10-d1o1) and 7,8-diel vere Incrensed tore
than thae of the 4,5-diel. In she enee of 1iver mierosomee only the
yield- of 9,10-diol and 7,8-diol vare incraseed ovar the contrel
levels, The presence of eyelohexene oxide in the incube tior -ir
tures decresred the production of the dioln. Basal-level enEvEe
activities in placental fetal 1iver, and fetal akin aicroson se in
metabolizine R vere very low. Pretreatnent of pregmant hame ters
with RaP indaced map-metabolizing enzvees in fe : tierue 2-3 fo1d.
femm in coal tar, edr ral oll, car exhaust, tohacce sroke. a A foode, ett.
a In vitro stadiee showet that ne tabolie activation of Bar ie required for
Ste intaractio vith proteins and nuclete aetde (2,3). Earller studies with
rat 1iver pr eparations 24,5) and harater 1iver microsomer (6,7) shoved that Bar
le metahelised miiny 8 phenolie and dihydrodihydroxy (diel) derivatives, and
to quinomes which are ensymatie or air ovidation producte ot matabl phenolic
netabolitas Is')) a vell as some untdentified nore polar metatolites. The
metabolien ef Rat has generally been meamured da the production ot 3-hydroxy-
Bar (3-OR-RAP) which je aften one of the major metalolites In vitro 5 3-0H-
K-regton eporides ef re e1 polyryelie aronatic hylrocarlon IENN H to cell-

sonos wa rerraneed to 4ire
wan cne of the rater -at

ntn Iuhutrerw-llll (--CH-RPP
. the matabolie yielde or 9.10-

Banue (a)pyrene (Da le . carcire and

neental rontant that in

nap ie toric te mitured call (9) hut it shovr
DIA in vitro (61 end has not been

11rtle interactin v th
to be - arcinoeenic. On the other hand,

1291