PKV
Carcinogenesis vul 11 MI 13 rp.2721-2725, 1924 carcinogens -uussss031014gaotu2tr chemopreventive agents
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke benzo(alpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
pyridyl-1-buuannoe and
C342
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amenean Heath Foundatinn, Valhalla NY 10595, USA
models examined 9 date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclie aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (1). We have chosen the A/J mouse hecause previous
The purpose of this study SEA to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer In smokers. Lung tumor induction in AJ mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression 01 by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However. the combined and benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice CI evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenbere were treated by either intragastric adcard (i-g-) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of Intraperitoneal injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compound: against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and7.12-dimethylbenzdllattrracene (9,10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the AJ mouse OI evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The i- route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4,11,12). Results obtained with the A1I mouse can be replicated because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems. For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injection site and associated mortality A dose response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung tumorr induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/1 mouse and F344 rat (11,13). mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not het realistic with respect 01 tobacco of 24 umol of each) induced more lung tume ors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for 6 study, NNK and BaP. are important Comparisons of NNK and RaP given individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke à11 when given 59 the i- route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either were complicated by local tumor formation and mortalits, before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP. The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 pmol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and subdoses i.g, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we exnmined uumor yields obtained dosing. This regimen induced 10.5:4.4 lung adenomas/ uodn treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 19 ethylisothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor modet was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzy! isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP. this study provide a convenient model for assessing the NNK was synthesized in the American Healch Foundadion Organic Synchesis efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Faeility. Is purity wat establithed by HPLC as >997 BaP (93% purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which Amencan Heaith Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maistained on AIN-70A dirt containing $ uAd oil. os previously to play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups sf 15 as sammarized in Tahle 1 At ase 7 weeks each mouse we kers: A-cmethylniirosamiiol -(3-pyridyl)- --butanone (NNK") treated by intrppritonnaal (i... injection or by lntragasrii gavage (2) with and benzolalpyrene (BaP) (1) NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical ie 0. mi cononseed oil. NNK and BaP were beth carcinogen with organospreificity for the lung .n all rodent dissolved in the 0.1 ml used for treatment. Injections and gavages were carried *Abbreslations: NNK. 4-(methy! osamino)- 1-(3-pyridpp-11 -butunene individuat dese was cne -eighch of the roral Equimolar dours of NNK and a BoP benzolp)pyrene: PEITC, phenethy isorhiocyanate: BIIC, benzyl BaP were wedd in most of the combination groups, because the arauunts of
which these 011 tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the
Mos: previous studies in the A/I mousa have examined We sought to develop a model which could be used to
that Bal was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
5.9= 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (F A 0.001) and completely inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
BITC (989 purity) and PEITC (93% (Aund were obtained from the Aldrich Chemical Cempany (Milwaukee. wi. Cottonseed oil was purchased from Ferale A mice, age weeks, were obtained frrm The Jackson Laborarory cRar Harbor, ME.. They wers housed undes standard conditions in the The desiga of the bioassay is illustrated in Figure 1. A mice were divide out for 8 consecutive wecks. Thr toral doses ar given in Tuble 1 Each 16 NNK and sotal careinogenic polycyelic hydrocarbons in tobacco smake are
Sigma Chemical Co (S1 Louis, MO..
Introduction
agents against two of the carcinogen: in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
isothiocyanat, P intrineritoncal, is. intragatrie gavage.
o Oxford Unversity Press
2721
