NEVS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A campaign to woo Dade County teenagers away from smoking la under way bere as part of a natlon-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groups, the society hopes to persuade a large pro- portion of the nation's young people that amoking may Jead Key urapon in the : m- paign, l nim strip detalling thr - against tobacen, It has aiready I ahews te - enth graders in 13 ahoonls ot eduratiena televinion, and will 1 breadeast tn miath Kradn acience students i the The seventh-grade program, directed by teacher Bill Evans, included a panel discussion In which students directed ques- tiona at Dr. Francis N. Cooke, representing the society. e "Teachers I have talked to agree that although amoking ia not a serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu. dents are approsching the age when the problem wil be faced," Erane sadd Mab value a a nimstrips E = glves students Joglcal argument with whleh ithey roald refue ta - - - when nreuraged by arrele et friends," a edded The fim strip la alse being ahmnn "live to senior a - achools in the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October 9, 1960
Education Cuts Youth
e
Habits
Fag .
American eigaret aokiin can be reduced 2 k cent through teenage education program .H & high schools. These statistics wrre presenled Saturday b Walter G. 1 director of publie education for the American Cancer Society, here for the Flerida Division. ACS, annual meeting I said the I mmkke progrm : directed at leensgers as * mean fer I eancer becsmme e the sodlet'ss eeevietion that moking r . came el fatal lung 2 proapects of reducing cigaret mmoking b one-fifth were pbin Ss pilot program conducted with 2.000 high schooi students - Pertiand Ore., I 1 - d a Boddrtis I parents 1 wne modt lieey de 1 Smoking incressed is 4ee successive high school grdes. Among boys participating in the Oregon arvvey 141 & cent smoked as freshmen. 152 X cent as sopbemores, 31.1 per eent as juniars, 1 : as - A correspond ing figures for girl stodents were 46 per cent, 14.6 per cent, 1 or the studrnts. 28 per cent of the boys mmoknd regularly at lesst enre . ! u Aid 114 per cent ol the girt 4 Education programs agairat smoking reduced the mmbbr ol new amokers aroong boys from 13 per cent te 1.7 & cent. and beginning girl mokrrs from 14 be 1. PROGRAM EFFECTIVE Jamer mid Che figures projected ever - four-year periid indicated 2 20 per eent d high school I could rt deterred froro amoking through the ACS educational progrm a stddy, N snid, revealed that the 1 dffective approach war 5 showing thr leng term ellect a moking. lerving the decision l be I + a Least ellective, he related : the simpl instruction not i 2 part el : anti-smoking eduration program a ACS has devised * Aim srrip ineutrrting affects a r habit for acreming un # rcholl clasrrooin
a cancer.
at 2 3 Mar Hotel can dlauur
apring.
a
I a éigaret pabit
3 k cent and 2 per rent.
1 TIE NTTINN 20/0020686
