C
8a/n/s
IHT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira New York Timer Semir
wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotioc about 80 New Taiwan dollars . made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even in recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22
TAIPEI I The Mariboro coW- dn sales of $119 million. in 1986, trade talks between the United New Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just S4 4 million. For- States and Taiwan. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghng from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOw hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis town. His picture adoms kiocks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, régistered * ing in Japan are more liberal Com- guitar-playing. jeans-clad promot- Indoed, Asian sales accounted give out free cigarettes and gifts," B aggressive campaign. Television This trenetic, fast-growing na- cigaretie exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lrwed in the United States in 1971. tioc of nearly 20 million people ly because both Taiwan and Japan school students - 12, B years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-standing restrictions. are DOw smoking How can e and Taiwan must carry - label that, year and for the first time, - According to the Brown & Wil- rette companies promote cigarettes roughly traoslated, says, "For thr mbstantial number of them were limmsoo Tobecco Corp. exporta of like that? I''s O.K. to have them sake of health, don't smoke t0o made .s America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- mucb" - warning much milder To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy - 915, billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels brinds to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $i uomig in new sales. the United States. But those people mandated a the United States.
and dod-pur-uoo stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
panies can advertise on TV after
OuI this city, next to posters o - peroent. er of Winston cigarettes.
"They go 01 amusement places 5 3:50 P.M. and arc now conducting
for most of the growth in American be said recently. "Many scbool- advertising of cigarettes was out
In Japan, which has population millioa of 120 and where people ube past year. The market share 2E American cigarettes increased to ers vigorously deny 10 from 3 percent is 1986, and the promoting
Wacturers have essentially intro cigarette advertising 01 the tbe American companies of entic- ing teen-agers 01 unke da moking. operation that had monopolized peroen: by 1992. tised, altbough it does now, prenrure from Washington. In the alcobol. year since stiff restrictions oc for. 8 cigarettes were dropped. o American cigarettes ET Taiwan for peedod growth American man- sfacturers at time when sales in export way and tbe number of anti-smoking laws is way dn
are juat like robbers. If you are A Tbe 'ompaaiee say Amencan 'uru a human being. you wod't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan not R mucb because of the adver- tising a because they are of better quality and taste beiter. American are with the way are diaarttses made of thry and bacco and have less tar than Tai- products My wancse cigarettes which are not
duced
ialand, and tbat has created a furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes year. that. Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled
American
cigarette manufactur- there is any- Tbey are not allowed to advertise 5 small stores where cigarettes are R well as through promo- aiso 120 ads a yeu in place droulation maga- acl- dom cxooods 200,000. people Taiwa im-
blended to-
charge the American companies more than percent last year, thing Suoin their The govermmcc--ddminttteee dicts that it could grow to 15 8. 20 sales pitch.
boly deny.
Department of Agriculture -odd thry have no pians to change ther bleoded. American pressure to open their have they pusbed to do s0, thry say. said Jaw Shau-kong a legisiator. tions. Cigarette uammsmntr may courage its people to amoke, why zines, cach o whoec caus of American ada. Thry hire rettos accounred for leus than 1 per young attractive po--r006-61 girla oent o tbe market wearing short skirts to give "p cig- posed strict quotas on forcip and then it becomns a babit. It's cigarettes and imposed stin teriffs.
the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials & tbey resent foo tdlevisin or .g newapapers. Nor The government agreed to allow markets te products that éndanger Tbey can advertise only through otbers into tbe business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and posiers bung near cigarette racks or
sales F really burts our feclinga. kold,
have soured, generating much- n.. ube United Suses docs not eD-
to Taiwan? Younger
the Unitod States are down E females arc smoking * los 8 Bdorr last yerr, forcign ciga According to the U.S. Depart- arettes (ree 9 nightclubs k's 3 cigarettes, banoad imports at E mbrt of Agriculture, people in Tal- difficult for Sunol boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets liceneed to sell
immoral.
2 . rerult imporied aigarctie cost
OL4/9000Sz
