Principal Investigatot/Program Director (Last, first, middie):
Cardenas, M. E.
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH POSITION TITLE
Give the following information for the key personnel and consultants and collaborators. Begin with the principa
investigator/program director. Photocopy this page for each person.
NAME
Kara Dolinski
Graduate Student
EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or other initial prolessional education, such as nursing, and include postdoctoral training.)
YEAR CONFERRED 1992
INSTITUTION AND LOCATION
DEGREE Ph.D. (candidate)
FIELD OF STUDY Genetics Technical Writing & Editing
Duke University, Durham, NC
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA B.S.
RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Concluding with present position, list, in chronological order, previous employment, experience, and honors. Key personnel include the principal investigator and any other Individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the project. Key personnel typically will Includo all Individuals with doctoral or other professional degrees, but in some projects will include individuals at the masters or baccalaureate level provided they contribute in a substantive way to the soleritific development or execution of the project. Include present membership on any Federal Government public advisory committee. List, in chronological order, the titles, all authors, andoomplete relerences to all publications during the
past throe years and to representative earlier publications pertinent le this application DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.
August 1993 present May 1992 May 1993 1988 1992
Graduate Student, Duke University, Department of Lab Technician. Biogenesis of the Yeast Vacuole (Elizabeth Jones). Carnegie Mellon University B.S. Degree. Technical Writing and Editing. Graduated with University Honors. Biogenesis of the Yeast Vacuole, Carnegie Mellon
Genetics, Durham, NC
University.
Publications:
J. Heitman, M.E. Cardenas, T. Breuder, C. Hemenway, M. Lorenz, R.S. Muir, E. Lim, L. Goetz, D. Zhu, and K. Dolinski. Antifungal effects of cyclosporine and FK506 are mediated via immunophilin-derenden calcineurin inhibition. Transplantation Proc. 26, Hemenway, C.S., K. Dolinski, M.E. Cardenas, M.A. Hiller, E.W. Jones, and J. Heitman. vph6 mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae require calcineurin for growth and are defective
2833-2834, 1994.
in vacuolar H+-ATPase assembly. To Be Sumitted to Genetics.
PHS 398 (Rev. 9/91)
(Form Page 6) Page 50664551
FF
Number pages consecutively at the bottom throughout the application Do not use sulfixes such as 3a, 3b.
