LOS ANGPIFS TI:E Los Angeles, California October 20, 1954 been proved, lale 1niivessity
harrl uudn the premire that Sination n' a partirular type nect or hetween riea- in each nf a three ratrgories mokine and disease ha: has alrcady produred a sale Might Take Six Months ene it is. so all can be made Dr. a Cuyler Hammond thar way. 1 not, the research who was in charge of the most Dr Carrnce Cnok Lit:e complete statistica! Spmss to rhairman of the scientife ad. date, said tba: "some say we visnry bnard and scient fic di- should wait for more defini rector o the Tniarro Indus- tive evidence before develop- try Resrarch Committee de. ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would one has said just what the de produre some nf "the defni- fiitive evidence wmrd be." tive eviderre' in ecr Dr Hr sard te "took issue" with Hammond referred. In his 1alk in the Ameriran "We wiil tarkle simultan system was more important, line of the industry research migh: prove surcesstal in six do not have today the experi- months, witt k:ck." he said menta! evidence that : per- toharen, he Raid, and e may The most important prncett
cigarette If so scientifie re- scarch should prove which should find one, "since ple like to smoke cigarettes. scribed the nutlnes nf st: Tackle Unknewns
Expert Calls 'Safe Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming NEW YORK Ort. 19 (1P
for
atatistician
-oad
this virwnoint
The rvidenre connecting cig- Cancer Society meetine. Dr eously manv of the unknowns arette smoking with hoth Hammond said the relation- in this feld of tobacen use in lung cancrr and heart dis- ship nf rigarette smoking to relation to humun health. he case is "ovrrw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the ou!- something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitive once abour developing "a safe health. than the relationship findings in ue area where cigarette." leading statisti- to lung cancer A program t0 murh suggestive work hae cal scientist told the annual find " safe cigarette from bren done. The program nf tie advisory board of the There are varinus types nf garding the raure anri rfrrt Tobacco Industrv Research tehacen, there are varinus relationship hetween erv ron. Committee anaounced some of types nf Aiters, and there are mental factore includins
the viewpoint of the heart the bnard Outlines Described
tha: we recngnizrs mit scientific eoncl:sions rA. mmnkire and lune rancer pet up waR dirre: uedy 2 current lung cancei rase: . 10 medical centers intle : n I ed States and Canada,
meeting cf the American Cancer Society today. At the xame time the scien-
1he details nf as seicnife re arinua terhn'uues n euring
srarch program which is he thar
some fortuitoss rom- LOS ANGELES EXAMINER los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
It will include numerous <tudies of humans, including emotional habits of smokers, as well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. à specifio research grants, financed by the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY ON TOBACCO YORK, Oct. 19, - < broad sbx point study seek ing knowledg whether eigarets or other forms of tobacco cause lung eancer or other health baz. ards was announced today. It l the first announcement of big research proxram headed by the selentifie ad- visory board of the Tobacco In dustry Research Committee
NEW
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
