AA

AMERICANJOURNALOF
Public
Health

Editorial
Volume 77. Number
Alre I MD. MPH

May 1987 Established 1911

EDITOR Less Hazardous Smoking and the Pursult of Satisfaction
Cigirrttess deliver drugs: al roct smoking is drug laking Seventhe wurk 2
confrmed air otine as . powerfully reinforcing psychoactive drug Fox the con um
ASSISTANT FDITOR er. then, ubra low -icld cigareties raise the simple issue of druk culling ur
I A Rothman, DYPH adulieration The unsatisfactoriness of ultra low yield cigarenes 1 . I F at
population hased sample smuke cHRarctees an the range/6 in mg n
Mary F. I DPPH 191 2mg € Despit the publicay about dinease nsks et umuking and the widespt
Chaipersonn belief that uitra lor yieid cigarettes are kes h - must - a w mH
Doris Bloch, RN. D-PH (1989 the sireet for these cigarettes, let algne -alk the advenvee mule
No doube smoker have roulinclyTried wlura low yil Crarrtue a
Joy G. Dryloes MA (19 routincly have reiscied ihem a unsainlyinng A a :
Manin v I no (1988 delivers ahan 80 per cent diluting air in cech ouf taken by offiral smoking me a
Frederick C. Green MD 19 Thou smokers * Irarn the inchs of compensatory - are mutre brri H
persisi in smoking thru cigaretee tha are thoue smuker whe de no 4 -
sati clory compensation techniques For u low wxkd ciparetess the
smoking leu hniques are i hana the deluting ar venis un Nier uh lrp u
D Rogers, MD MPH (98 taking larger pufls, and at Marer and Formmann e mum w sempty smut un mur
Zena I MA MB 11989) cigarenes per dar A smoker vill sriecis 2 icompe
Feruado M. Trevine. 2 MPH (1987) compensators kave may cause much ef thr discouraging 7 u Lar in
Experimenuel Evddene - Res en eaperments huu more en ragin DIS
Joe I Wray MD. MPH - of whal muhit be ganed frum the wndespread us e wlter low >eid
amokers who refuse to oui smoking Wesi et 1 random - assaned 14
remair 1 thrur o-n hrand (average 1.1 - ue uee 4 m E and 12 smuke
STAIT le ch le an -hrr loe yeld hrand 0 ma
H MeBesch, MD. MPH smoking the witra low yield group had plasma micte ne level that werr unh * pr
Erec - d DerctorrManngin Edirer cent of the own hrand eroue 1s 22 ng/mi) .
Adrienne A mh 8 per ceaI uo - 11 ppm) (Although -ue a un thr Mrihudt u
Pabliramn Drreter explicaly unstructed not to hix bher ven IN west Prrvonal 1e
Deyne 1 Simularly u the expermmntal component *t she ae oum Hens
Assisrent Menag F panial compensati in smukers whe -cre foredd lu
Marva Barne (Beha nra blocking of Aiier venu at rux forbudden i this Mudy but mur hu
Edioriel Assistane discouraged by detarls of the procedure -
The rombaned lesson of the cruss see uore survey and the forced a
P -e i expenments is that i there is lo be ma smmal progress with she arrne siyle a
Darkene Dobbs yiekd cagarete HS use Aedss lo be en couraged mure forcelully Onr of the
*wlidyeriiingg Auutaa umokrr dun pur up -sth ultra lue weid . that hugher - cigarene ure
easy purchave a-ay Imagine chuculate kover 3
deven nland sus candy mught ser trrat bur - -ril wir : andt
meullo hox - would gaiher dust especialy the were rue . ver
George - Annas JD, MPH ihe more satisynn I wt ales
ir cigarette manulacturers werr requaeed lu make only lu A
(guarding againsi more problema birer desens 1 thes
arcarer efless on eapesures lo smnk -. 1 2 the du an the w a
blocking vent holes and by smoking grealer rumben per day And m

of customers for these products even in raht
Maron and Fortmann in thit issue of the

aou Calforrna As mutrd by
only * P ent et

EOITORIAL BOARD
-rre H. Hurier PD (1987
Mary Grce Kevar, DaPH MS 198
1 rarer MD. MPH (190
Julice A Waller MD 10011 eviewed in the
Philip G Weikr MD (1e

m neu suun

:
hnge
remair -
-
me tar : : 10 dus .
ie e sutlrrdd à
- aruu
vitra lu- yil F
en
ih
2
much
cipareties
I
539

-

report

Michele Hontn
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS
1 Nraha - rer Les
I G Rosenhranta PND
1 1 Thre - Ne
1 H i MD. DrPH

I T e Finke as drug contens of medication . Mniily regulated H wurddd be Jrus .e -
Jesn Connelky MLS smoke Many imuken would over smukk shere cigareues by brral n et

5 F -

2501662717