BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
Area stores
SA
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For the Delly Camera *9oo kids. ka,
referring to the Increased enforce- penalyy fur Humas tobacco v0r m pous 3 Ang "le cigaretles. The the cigarettes. and, if asked, they (Sce BOULDER, Page 3C)
ment.
Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky OFQ8nous nesses this week during a crack. ger'auuhttwwrre issued summonn down on selling cigarettes to ml- to appoar "t court. Thc. maximum The sting. conducted on the eve -oris H $200 fine of the American Cancer Soclety's Tho yuna involved two tcams. Grcat American Smokcout, was in- Each included u uniformed 'omierr tended 01 educate clerks that it's il- a piain. clothes oonicer. pue umi legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School sirts, Who Police targeted gas stations, -005 giris" parenis signed a waiver al- vénience, drug, grocery and "srp lowing them to Tako partin.thc.og: "swy has never beer enforced. said The Juvenlles were told not to Jopinog Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "We're letting the stores know had to show identification.
'count stores. nnun, recently, the eratlon. this is going to happen,' ehc sald,
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry 28uh SL, one of the girts asked when she was jsste Asum the cashier for a pack of Mart mons. oys raid 3q0 was N stur boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- jueP and couldn' piOEE Du ness, In plain clothes, poons In tourt costs. HAukeness pou W- "Iine-hahind her to witnese thc Tongole Ter, saying she -pooo A placard near the cash regis- the Distriet Attorney to do cam ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice instrad of paying clerk asked tn see some identif- The clerka, not the store OWI- cation. The buyer produced ler ert or manugers, have to pay the. she wAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'L do it to usiund cd at the license, sct it down on stores or cleris, she said. the counter, and sold her the though, when you scc clerks "Al-: Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted 16:: stepped dn and identified him sloros and clerks at all bur four celf 03 a police officer. Manka received summonses. came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wock'a operation was the. "When I Nee them ask for an year. The Arst sting, conductee E I think they're going to 2 in September, targeted 16 stores: esnt the cale," Haukeness said. und $I clerks received sum-
(From Page 1C)
The clerk at Colony Market,
transaction.
prubably work out a deal-with
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, driver's license, which showed court costs.
cigarettes. summons.
ing, you might think otherwise. cry: - punass tobacco sale stine this:
"But uhey never s
monses.
