AAL8
.RAP
: RCH -
Relative Hepatotoxicity of Some Industrial Solvents after Intraperitoneal Injection or Inhalation Exposure in Rats INOVAR LUNDBERO, MARIANNE EKDAHL, TONY KRONEVI. VITAUTS LIDUMS, Reararch Drpurmmeat, Natiraa R -f Orrerereue Sefery - Neel - S-171 a Sulen, Swrden Intruperisoncal LD, Biethal dose s0A k vahues - miiimll liver tenic dexs in 1 Sprngue-Dawley ruls - determinrd fer the $ --latnel mdrentss tolueme. 1 a L a in Nuroethene tnchlor eshykne, cthunll meihyl tthel ceuune a ane h the fellueing wdreiis LC, I . . ahw Jew a akke Hrim chloro form, frte chorroshylenn and dmcthviformamm UDMP The Krve a of the - -ye wrbitel dehydrogenuse (SDH) - w . - - du A -ee damage Carbu in chloride chlorufurm end DMF hepelcuss ky * cumpared la e values M w and x : Chrroltrm and DMP 4 à 4 inhulation papaurr $ values appruammalll 1wu end Jw t Even reletively 1 doses A the ter -eie 4 - - the sue cuviyy Signikaatt direci (merabe a nediatedi hepelotosicity -rem tu br u $ cummo fratur amon commonly wee The hepatoloxicily of some industrial sulvents. especially carbon tetrachloride and chloroform har been calensively studied 1ata concerning liver toxicity can be found aho for marl other solvents Huwever, the liver toxicity has in only few çases been studied relative lo other eilecis uf the sulvents In occupalional medicine this 1 of informater i of 4 me value 43 cilecis with significance for the estahishmmet o threshold lmmu valurs are ut par ucular interest Sever al methons har - been used le cvaluale lOak lever damage in caperimental animals. delermunater of different ive ene yme a uYIe in serum A raised activity of such enzymes is caused by increased leakage of the enzymes through the cell membranes but H is uncertan wbrthe this lcakage is € in an inevi- table development of cell necro (Zimmerman, 1976) However, thr enzyme analyses provide bettes quantilative estimaicy E the extent of necrouss and are easier to perform than microscopical aaminatior uf ussue preparations Though limited necrosis can only be detected microscopic ally certare enzymes are highly sensitive for liver cell necrosis Korsrud et A 11972 1973) have shown that sor- bitol dehydrogenase (SDH)" is such an enzyme. In studies where different $ Abbrevatioons verd DMF dimethylformamidee SDM sorbitu dehydrogenase: ALAT alanine sminotrunalerrse LD- lethal dose NPA ka LC. irihal ceir retom N E TD, loak doe & TC - toakc com sntraiie so% Throuphour uur I wirse -eice € - wolvent/pcanul 2 -isture rekem .o volume percent. The velume les whr muaturs . meglecied.
AND STINA LUNDBERO Recrived Max 198
ylene chloride cartun teirachloridk - arkh and minimul hver lan - conceR (TD, (laicc duse $ - a -pe - -ere hepulutesk - comperatively - - (TC, (lunic - watrial solvents. .
INTRODUCTION
411
0011-9151M S1 a .
2501661843
