LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday March 20, 1977
ALOOKAATEESSS uo-uegeuu Saccharin: Inwt ROBEFT Times S lence wrmer Dces it make S nse 8 ban a popuia: focd additive o be strength of what happens wben hundred rats and. thérr oifspinngs eat g additive in heg: doses? ! Tbe Calorte Contral Coumeil, Ine. R. Allatta thinks not a trade argani- satim. whose $ 0,000 annual budget comes troa manufacturers a. dietary food and drink, bas spent thousands ofdellars in thelast few days for fuil- page newspaper ads acrsss the coun- berating th: Food and Drug Ad- ministration for its decision 6 ban saccharin. - the oniy noonutritive: sweetener currently on the market "2ven the E A is willin 8 admit thère's a basie difference between * rats and human 1 cne a ad in the TIEA Street Journal.observed. SAI- 1 anothér - mpie a, the art matrr ot big
To judge by thi torrent "f E  the FDAhas received. a sizable por- tiar the. calorie-counting public agres Long accustomed 6 a cross firs or critiism trom industry and consumer activists, the FDA bas been- 1 by, citizen demands 9 liber- ate saccharin. And moves are afcot F Cangress i amend the. Food. and. Drug Actem NAi à 1 f S There'sbeen tremendous.cutery from all:over the country," B EDA spokesman 5 Washington said: A ranges from anguish to anger. We've. "never been this busy. a te 1 :Te FDA: for its part; says it was only doing wbat the law required. d tbe law-specificall the Dela- ney clause Congress inserted. in the. Fpod and Drug Act im 1958 says that:1 po-ffccd)) additive shail be deemed- to. A safe R it is found after tests: 3 which are arepdoadde for the evaiua- den of the safetyaa food additives: duce cancer B. man o animal" t clause does:nct allow fara bal S0p of zisi ad benerit. Nar daes M idtire - the: ban ta: be: based o ridence of. cance
of bésteged
the logic 't this law may - seem. 9 the general public, medical esearchers say: that the- animal A a périments upan-which such regilato are basèd do a sen- decisions have sibee rationale -and that they 5 bave a direct:bearing on risk 9 bu- mans 3 HItis true, resea atp thittheratt 'at thecenter of this fur crè consumed each day the saccharin equiralent of 4penor "1,00 cans of - lowécniorie soft drinic But they-con- sidèrit not dishonest to n-3mprops as the calcrie counell bas, that Suggest: I disparity makes the research 8 humans. tirleevant wbo drink one S a Pecple A P a saccharia "sdf oniy drink run a comppraally lower risk of cancer. But fn a af 213 million pecple, tee populatin collective haza E could sdil add - a d sever a0 cases of blad dercancer: *E:1 Morecver, sce : note rat
2
:
7035437
0087432
TIMN
