Vol. 285 No. 23

EDITORIALS

1317

The New England
Journal of Medicine
Official Organ of
The Massachusetts Medilcal Society
Founded in 1812 as the NEV EXGLAND JOURNAL or
MEDICINE AND SURGERY and continued in 1828 as Vol. et
the BOSTON MEDICAL AND SUAGICAL JOURNAL
PUBLISHED WEEKLY ay THE COMNITTEE OS PUBLICATIONS
or THE MASSACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY
Claude a Welch, M.D., Chninan
Joseph Garland, M.D. EDITOR EMERITUS
Franz J. ingelfinger, M.D., EDITOR
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
George S. Richardson. M.D., Book REVIEWS
O'Leary, ASSISTANT
EDITORIAL BOARD

ACTION ON ASBESTOS
ASBESTOS workers are unintentional victims of
industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary
fibros. pleural calcification, mesothellomas and lung
cancer. Asbestos exposure is now widespread,
involving not only air but also
wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the
lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex-
posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or
ferruginous bodies may be, there le no doubt that
electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers
case in the general population at this time, the
presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing.
Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by
most chemical and physical means and our foat
freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods.
Asbestos discases have a long latent
sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must
the
now, on basis of "reasonable
ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition
of dose-response relations
These thoughts are reinforced by the work of

drinking water.

Alexander Marble, MD,
Samuel Proger, M.D.

Sael S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al-
Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-

20
period,
probabili-

Jane F. Desforges, M.D.
Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.
Robert
Robert E. Johnson, M.D.
Norman 9 Levinsky, M.D.
Francis D. Moore, M.D.
Charies A. Sanders, M.D.
Jeroine H. Shapiro, M.D.
Ronald A. Arky, M.D.
Dana L. Farnsworth, M.D.

Ronald A. Malt, M.D.
EDITOR

Arnold L. Smith, M.D, years or more. We therefore believe that more

be made

Jola W. Lindefield, M.D, Murphy and associates fn this issue of the Journal
Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, 6 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in
Louis Weinstein, M.D, new ship construction include better than
John R. David, M.D. exposure data and Indicate a high incidence of as-
Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. pestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have
Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-

Howard Bleich, M.D,

usual

Isadore N. Rosenberg, M.D.
Milton C. Paige, 4 BUSINESA MANAGER

tions. A second study of Murphy et al. reports two
cases of pleural disease (one mesothelloma) in
workers who sanded asbestos foor tiles. Since the

AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au-
aunt should consult "information for Authors." This material thors simulated the working conditions and found
may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour- concentrations of 1.3 Abers per milliter 'of TOOm
nel, or it may be obtained from the /oanal office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of currently
space, and all material, including figures, should be submit- used threshold limit values. A fiber per milliter of
CASE REPORTS, usually published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 10 Abers every
gence" section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled

manuscript, including references, should be typed double
reference to articles reporting closely related cases. A very Abers remains in the
short case report or : description of techaie submicted as a
"BRIEN RECORDING" should de limited to 500 words.
MATERLAL printed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period.
cine is covered by copyright The Journal does not hold itself
responsible for statements made by any contributor.
NOTICES should be received not later than noon on Mon-
day, 24 days before date of publication.
cies published Requests should be sent to the author.
imply endorsement by the Journal,
Arbor, Michigan 48106.
chusetts 02115.

ted in duplicate,

room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per
an alarming number will still accumulate over a 10-
A recent Committee report prepared by A Nation-
al Academy of Sciences panel* has called for control
of asbestos emissions at the source and for protec-
The report also calls for further rescarch on the
Abers; such data are urgently needed "if a

these
lung,

.

figures suggest that

REPRINTS: The /ournal does not stock reprints of the artl- tion of those who are exposed in their occupations.
ALTHOLGH all advertising material accepted is expected to biologic effects and the physical characteristics of
SUBSNIPTION PRICES (worldwide) $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with
interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates are in U.S. fundsonly, confidence." Although we endorse these recommen-
M:CROFILIE volumes available to regular subscribers dations. we want to underline the urgent need for
through University Microfims, 318 N. First Street, Ann technical controls based on existing knowledge.
COMMUNICATIONS should be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as-
land journal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects

conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance does not asbestos

on cells and tissues are important and must be con-