17

ATIN re a G H

New! Improved! Dangerous?

With More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium, Experts Fear Thric Reactions

B. Awan 2 Lasporn
Garelet a 7 Endington Aut
- for be 1 far
kechtane a
a 00 saral
abli lollowed in a - le lu the
late altorexin. A4 L tier and beelor chick
a and . conple et wgetables topped with
monnrine, adluwad bar data maltivita BRAVEAS
min minel nit kor nutritional "innance.
The while untehing 1V la the evening
balteup (olas, cap) se ave gream. Sounde
pretr innonale, rigur
Actually. depending 041 the hrants you LUNCH
dasite, your $ nam PLACO net be
tween 3000 ar 3.300 mulgraas are cald
am -sicaticantly mee the à "Tulevable
Upper Lrake Level" of 009 milimans a
In the the National Araden of Scienees AFTERNOON SNACK
ekas). Sin mam 1 are now ketilied with
calelum allut a Nas hreet Cad beader Boado
snet the salety leat Ant that has sene ru DININE
teition posen dare ounovel
"An whh anything Le 1 on 2 a 1/2 cap hrocch topped with
pruhlem sagn Richard Wood, chef of the
Mineral Noamilablity Laborntory af the
lenan Nutrition Research Center at Tufts
University in Boeton. "The wadow betwega
autimal ietale and the upper line a ade Cre ent
theler small Indeed, the adequele intaler EVENING SNACK
mtalthetty the NASE 10000 to 1,300ml
Esmama dat depending en aun Oil bwice cost madetadin Glant and Safeent
ont haut E you've rearlad the salety
ociling 2 sarg other rutenta, youra TOTAL
Gmarn helore machinut rists levels
What can happes AL you take le toe mith
cadelus awer E Wood sugs there have
I "on the corder of sucase reporta" ofcal
cium torkcity, whkh E mantes ltarif a Er Name
pesteps Jree some a the hunction.
the milacrul a cated, can
pany pine balme

much more chain then a lunat of alae a
real contalat 30 to 400 mtricran of der
mineral.
or comm - Pardurla Weaver, fur pen
ple nier getsing nethr 200 to 400 miliprams
a Calickam daity le coreal P stia R U-C
Ad. Anda as et people do at ond par
1 Waod precure - you don drink
- a caurnar ratees
milt, your calium and retion in alam
300 le 400 milli rmmin - he Fevs
1.000
110
sank rule al thumb penple sbooki
350
30
know
300
120
wad the exocptionel Ileancy. ibout de
rescarchers agrce that it's palcat mot tn nat
- doer 2,500 a-inigrammulenling
than
daily, regardbe 2 veriations a aboorption
84
rafca "Count 6 Woaver ays. "Mak 4
272
107
palrenre gringade 300
150
130
Wuod any LSat alaylngwith dir Tral t
partinlar concere in Thanchalla with M
200
- inothur trying a Mrl more calcium anr hr
145
leenage son sta alreale gets plenty he
abocr diet of the amount et foodhe cats soe
L 20 142
- trav cakium lurticod ptariant julee, al
e
41
26
citat fort F 4 cereal and en an, tat
31
17
be guanles mili er Juley a - le amtain a
A
a 212
aller knelell giractie Fax . casel n à
tor
50
bowle at ecreal an an afterschoul un de a
could cisly be gurug thressads of L
162
=
ligram of cakchal
Wood and other reserchers elso agney
GOO
26
chat M'steat 60 pr yor calcium frem part
à nt fixeds rather thin coe or two heavily
fortifsed enex pref dul at kast souae of a
3,304
1,487
sbould rome fromm and and other dairy prod
leen lonal in manesinn reftavin, vitamin
. and vitamin pr-all mailale in nrile
"pelry was KANI nl oncatop shopping de
than doscarch Center a Tulte, b particularty
that . I
withalt conentra
I Hort, . mineral researcher a Pur

A Calcium-fortifled Dan
3/4 co
- a
en cann Artified Mrran Bala enarge hie
La
ban
del
ee aan
a of % choean
Wastur Engla 2
Nett-Caln
bar
a en aktiess ducker Leuage
me siedas L Cruzery Crod P Caktum
balued potate, lagoet wie
ese shests * X Cau and Pa Galdin
ar
cup Dreart Calelum Ridh vanilia ke cream

The caliciam meommendation for teenage le 00E maigrams: a-bulte 10 age sn
lea -fortified foods 00 the markel today, an case to commun more den 250
rem x Tulerable Upper Intela Lovel 14 tn the Natkal Araderg at
an diet of eely sog calurios, Clied qut Ihe Summe men

hend 2 comm a ar dase LOOD milligrams: and adults Slelus, 1.200 miligrans. Het with the douena el

Lave a heroane the aleque lutake mar - I and - ee . . - - a lap - : Me de * - ede "Inisturighty Weaver expeuts, per
thow. lixing and molt theue cal intialie Olbern aghe flat calcium-dartiflet boodi agnes She 4 qunatlins the LOWI pa I = - lene mare dimo P and la a
The hides made et ant ustue. "might br are 1 reesonatie optien " Caver the coneept luman al ralcium ave I te every serv ing Go st cakhan bet ne mressarily the
par tinduly walnemh 2 reentks, and a hatificution, sins Robert Hean - eaki ingortel ecreal, FLL an exeeahe devel ether adstanners frone poldun Sortiled
Then, ton, Appercalcenals. as toxicity et Omal And unlie Wund, he's not partio R an mpreandented cul. probully higher Inwin Rosenberg cirertor of the Nutr
lave hada stone in thr part Too mart calr wthn consume lots more than Ithel I he en a the guaka in thr 1 abrydion thin of aingh nutrient will lell people intu
an can alan podece abaurytian et two other claims Some populations whs depend or a nl calciem. Non wit abeorb -are calcitum a thinkagr they're nosaristing thereelves ade
meultialmineralkes and ne the taticer e largely 4L tatir diet auth an conterds in you hare decadand thrunghout the das quately. "Y dont get of 4 hank of 1
wtich h accord-ar for wound bralleg and Eax Alrica and the Lapps who hendreinder 2 NUM That's was pouple atto tote CLO lag prudent lictary cholces because anor
pruper Guactionlyge e the isenune mytern le northern Scandinaria, "lypicaliy KOLG,000 millipans worth et calkum applements pacledune a ten heavily Sortifed hodi la
While ont problems kaue bee rare 3043 about which boods the autor- 1 to br condaded houndlatility tealag ar Theal's vee bones completely proterted aud he
ma ne mperusarlet sbelves rabca the Pur intance. Dever'sianum lest natket I that the cakelon in le rereal e ale denalty is 4 strengahened ler exerda," he
dinat el thric heeming more commen. ine ke eruam thel contalon 300 migrans norber pnint a wellas theenkin le milk. For ay Andin weakrad by de litt vitamin
Not Uhr Wood thinks calcium-fortified ofcalcium per haleup instead of the typical every 300 mitimm af ralcium consturd D. which is neoesary for caliclum absorp
Sookarea bad thing. la think Ihey E pond 100 maligrams, and Heaney remarks Tve (the amount le om of ma). the bodiy ab tim-and perfaps he too much sodjus ani
a be suya "Avernu letakes are mach eut mixod fochn S the juek lood altus norbs 100 mitigram or poughly 30 precent. calleta Beeh aubnlances wurk du ftes the
be na www 20 E 29 yeare e4 avenur Adde Conale Vienves, calcham lavestiga che ahrorption rate por clean I you hase N other wada, as Haus I a. "calot
when the shoul à cunining 1,000 an le "Tdhate tosor peopk use the cecase of 1 cuntains I oon minigrans T cuase you Ne I a bonl à Total doen't
Teraux And wasen 65 and epp. who needingtogel 1no calcian teeal koes duiralles 50 11 percil -alcet 130 mi moan von ve montel all the hous.
lee lacaly about leh Unt amount fora simy problem whlla making another ann lpreva can arving mupplies 1.000 milligana, yea Ratione.Rivedummer Larronce
boltre mur an the order of F to sur unil Frue Dunne Haghe chief of the Calci Indther min yua'rmet absatingtermibly Univrait Falih Nidritie Lellen

: veru toue I . - - I 4 I Tame tue I 1 1 a - - ple pa have lest deficient En caddum have

- aral Buse Metaball-ar Lab at Tulla, dis package A autresta sie I à a

um researcher at Creighton University ir 2 fortification, she comments a certalnir 1
AAne utarty concerned about anycen's L - than tr any ocher caketure lurtal ford.

stone Rurmatin, perticularly peogle - board. "There lote el very healthy

Fax adris

be
reservations, too, comerned

reades

are

people Weever

* I study a pontaconpanal www to 00022 milipans et amp per a arl de in afiterit tr Euall knet Cheir twa 300 say
: Wuni mports "High-calcin liete re- have "absolately so problems, le sme milipam palle ar deiferent nals,

Far be nar others do Juvi sontac reservations Heangy de the paint when he dans, peinte cat tuo the yerdon't men Faye

suw, F plethora d calchus -dortiled Reus addod to,
mach lowe itue abe resennendulan F lun
only pbas 710 miligrams et coldum

prodarer, General Mme a me land, hr Cause aunal arting a of culduni "Bee
Ilut an due coldun in * mral isors 44 mineral from the buly via Le urlac.
abarb seh abotit Iso thrat, Heaney sign Lindner Ce conntier alitorefar 7h

tor at Pardue Univerally le Witat Lalayerte, Saree to Form eups d poilk in one siting un la only ene part et the purale, Just he

Aland he verting 1,300 milligrams, are tak et Eu and calories Then you're solvilag oee Ferams, A's the sana salh the Total Since

ar don for nen althoush abe SAS for then lene IAN-4 I