HKB2228112
SANTA :A E . 2 1

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO

-

14 - 241

tsa- - 2 a
- .
14PARTMI / : sibalt
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willian H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Research Tourdation
715 Huir Lands Vista Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. Fishman
and Salk.

1 5 - ULM.SIA 2

a

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolla resch rch cocaunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founr ation and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzyaes
should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnrent of e focal center for rcsearch proorams on oncodevelopmenta
prublems is particularly ieely. It will be 0 grat potential importance for
pulling tcgetter work, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation,
characteriztaion and deternination of the significance of huran oncodevelopmental
antigens such as alphafotoprotein and carcinost.bryonic antiaens.
One of the goals of the work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship
of increased seruid concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinogen
exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systers clearly derion-
strate tne L anirals pasodko to hejatocarcinogens have clevated serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developrant of Falionant Lumers. It is hoped that systeretic
study of hean sera frull differert aurces vill determing if serum AFF concun-
In addition. the role of env irumental factors such as hormonal influences on
the production of oncodevelopineutal gene pry-hats can be further explored in
different sy: tems. Such data inplics that (be prod;u tion of oicocavelopmental
gene product, by tunor cells is net a fixed property of A givon tumor but is
He look foncard to working with you and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the importunt subjert of oncodeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinosen exposure.

subject to environecrital controls.

expression.
Best regards,
Stewart Sell, M.D.
Professor
SS/nb