DALLAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Texas April 14, 1954
Tobacco Firms New Cancer NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers. picture of the relationship of committee issued co causes lung cancer.
Ask Studies growers and tobacco tional" statements linidng smoking Among those quoted by the com and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the Nattonal Cancer United States Gov- ernment, which said . a 1953 A cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of lung caneer for exhaustive research to estab- had not been established. Several lish the basic cause of the disease. ot the institute's scientists also Others quoted were the Damon A booklet con Runyon Fund, which called for taining previously published state- more research, and Chicago à ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgoon Dr. Max Cutler, who itles doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons by other cancer experts that tobac- develop lung cancer partly because may of smoking but that to accept à The earliest, whitten in 1923, sald conclusion of a direct there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientitic relationahlp and none that would produce turnors. hazardous. The most recent, dated Last March "If smoke is the lungs were 16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of be done betore causes of lung can- have had it long ago, cancer, the all cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report Little, The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratory, Bar Har- 5 January te combat mounting bor, Maine. charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the up of nearly every major eigarette University of Texas School of Medi- manufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Insir-
alded
Inatitute of the
The tobacoo industry resenrch were cited.
we'd a
can à established.
director of the Roscoe B, Jackson ance Company and British author- itles, Neariy all those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until an absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report SCAL described by an industry spokesman as an # terim" statement, nouncement pending ame of the choice of a prominent scientist to supervise basic cancer research de be f- nanced by the industry. That scien- tist will decide how the industry's cancer-research money is to be spent, No date has been set for his selection. At the last count, the committee said, there were more than 850 cancer research grants 5 the United States alone, "any one of which might produce evidence to unlock the secrets of lung cancer,
LO 138765
