-

SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.
complains associaied with the sick building syndrome

ASHRAE aA SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
questionnaire The symptoms were more common . build-

In a cross-sectional investigation in ON building. office buildings built over the last 05 years with a validased
were meaured & a lincar analog scale questionnaire. dur where the ventilation system also provided cooling and
Ar the same time, the micro-environment (enviroumental humidification. imespective of the age of the buildings. A
characterittics in the breathing zone I than area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air
samples) - characierized by measing temperenure, quality parameters was not described. Skov et a (1967) ex-
relarive humidiry, respirable suspended perticulases, CEF- amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern I
bon dioride, noise level, lighting intensiry, relacive ka town halb and 11 older control buildings. A I ol symp
midiry, and airflow. No relarionship I seen benwern tom was related os "Meecing" factor (carpets, upholstery.
the degree of symptoms and age, educacion. or duration and horizontal surfaces) cad the "macro-molecular compo-
of employment e the building or time spent in dhr budld- nent" of dust. They also demonstrated - relationship berween
Shn On a daily basis. Starisaically, complaine were the pumber of houn spent photocopying and using carbonles
significantly more frequent among smoking men. Envi- copy paper and the level of complaints. Other studies bave
ronmental characteristics associased 1 the increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et a 1985)
complaint levels in this group included decreesed airflow and prychodynamic factors (Rowland et al. 1984) coatribute
models, there was an association benveen respirable aus- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome b I
pended particulases and the levels of boch mucous mem- suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertaon et
brane and systemic complaints. Satisfaction wish the al. (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif.
thermal environment as predicted by perception of 1 ferences la the concentrations of environmental pollatats
k nor clearty contribute a the degree of symptoms, berween rooms la a mechanically and a matully ventiled
although regression models E I dhar complaints building. They studied the rooms with the I compl
were nor independent of chermal parameners. Liphing rates and used area samples. Skov et al. (1967) did I
inaensity I also associeted I complaints. I strate - relationship between symptoms and both area -
mudies of dhe * building syndrome should examine ples measung dust and a "macro-molecular" fraction. again

a

velocity and increased levels of respirable suspended i to indoor air quality complaints

doulates - dry-bulb semperature. In regression

Several studies have antempted to identify the actual

mulale exposures simultaneously and include prycho in area samples.
L meases a identify predictors of complaints in

Area samples in buildings may not x representative of
the exposures . different points in single rooms. Physical
characteristics such a windows and partitions, computers.
and sbelving may infuence air currents. Radian heat may
different exposure characteristics than tbe macro-enviroe-

indoor I
INTRODUCTION

Complaints termed the E building syndrome" bave kad to uneven distribution of pollutats. Finally. most 1
led to numerous investigations in the last is years. They are hutants resuh from point sources, or they will be diluted as
thought to occur primarily s newty constructed oftice I subject . farther removed from the source. A micro 4
inp and, at kast in the past, were thought to be due to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very
wide variety of causes have been identifed is specife settings, meat of building la addition, all applied occupational and
inctuding inadequate temperature and relative bumidity 8 environmental bealth research that attempes to relate dose Bo
trol, noise, lighting. vibration. volatike organic compounds beakh effects I from the problem that I a penerally
and formaldehyde. microorpanisms, environmental sobecco measured a several points in time and then extrapolated lo
smoke, pesticides, i entrainment of vehicle exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications ower decades
spent and contaminated air and boiler I fibers released à most heakb effects are mcaured as a I resuk of
from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sampling
A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnepan where the kevel of symptoms may change not merely trom
et al. 1984) surested that these complaints - related pri day to day but from hour to hour. such a stratepy must fail
(Robertson et al. 1985) was unable to identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the micro-
wet-bulb globe temperature, dry-bulb temperature (temper- environment and set these characteristics in relation or a
ature). relative humidity. air velocity. formaidehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at . given point in I This
itive or nepative ons between several rooms in . building report presents results of crom-sectional investigation ol
with natural and a building with mechanical ventilation. problem building using - self-administered, linear analog.
where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
E I a Ammant Profenor of Medicine L ol ladustrial and Emvironmental Heakh Scaences at the Univeruty of Pistsurgh Schooti
of Medicine and Publec Heahh. P. Ceben a Director. Enviroomental Heah and Salery, Camepe-Mellon Univeruty. Pirtsburgh PA

inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Nevertheless,

(Kreiss and Hodpson 1984; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986).
marily os mechanical ventilation. A I poup ol authors

results la preater than the difference in average samples, and
No investigations in à peer-reviewed titersture have

3a5)