- r6
996
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richard L. Nacye, MD, and Woodrow S. may vaiy in incidorico and Somereet Counties of central categories for pneumuconiosls were mined anthracite roal.
Findings Dellinger, MS rank, low-volatile cost in Cambrin and l'ean- raleanla. None of the men hnd ever cucted between Suray eon- auct and 19-35 liy the Pennsylvania End Mineral INpartmet of Miner Indurtries phwed an a serage coal dunl werk- exposure jor ing rhift of JLIU,UN eutile foot of uir fur partides per bitumegs work- free Tle silica cuntent of ceal d Jat la low il all arenn of . nekdom lelag greater l'enneyha- tan :.. However, the mine Jurt cottettra- ti in of free ailira in greater for monte a dergruund wurkers Puch as nof € crniluhu le Aters and eledrie Invomeive * paracicaticial a à who drill into al'valearing tuberruluil and n-* or encountir palverin d other di an-e preeses." The TT casce selerted Fand, These sryarate di-enve prirevse al. Tengh w te keat R seareh of difering aututry ales ley reitsilo e huthera, whn risited eachef "even disability." h in the pirpase E -neral huspital and read every AU+ evaluate their L 24y protorul that lavolved a inlluence nu the man ruritgen- d 'er than 21 yrara of age wiu of parumoresinsis, la turevh 0361 I anl I:his, The Ps determine if Pari ft. casex Atarted atch with the with disalility esista in girts" patait sone workers withent aruristel descriptinnsof the lun, LE l. Ti el - was any mentinu of 8 .alve alnormulities pi.cment, parenchymal neduls . nin Pationts Studied and Methods nl er any hlatury of mining. the ti. nt'n clinical chart was la. elan.ind. fruni l'ennhania and Wed data were estr.ce: A ginia, Vir 3 - a as inrluded in the Thir: had utway4 mined nf Audy 3 datum unly Pat-H * uratuatinal esprear cre 1 of smthneatern sprein. minen Larl : l'emeshania ur in rut irmad les a Te J-heille neirhy nettern W.I Vir,:it. TL. 1: raail haul rrbets. ether 41 hal alway mine d highr in Irb-dantin tin iti seation 4,4 anhained (Irr. a No 2 Pa - I Na a A Deler - 223 PUBLICATIONS 027050
Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one pationt to another. bituminous coal, roentgenographic found to correlate well measurements of E the volume of nodules. and (2) the silica (silicon dioxide)and macules and nodules. recognition of cmphysema and which appear to be most closely correlated miners no with emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspinea in addition with silica and collagen,
process but a
In a study of 77 miners of with quantitative. postmortem anatornic pulmonary dust macules and collagen content of dust Unfertunately, there was poor rocntgenopraphic chronic cor pulmonale, the tnuchsorciers with dyspnea. A munber of P.A,' lo dust macules
roentgenographic évidence of pneumoconiosis had rom 107 to 4G2 of Appalachian chitis and hronchinlitis; coal workers have rorntgeno- lur, graphie evidence of pncu- mrconlonia, but con relatiuns belween onusionally such roentgenugraphic abnormalities. early stages." Theau dificulties Ldunj is not a single disense but a composite of inultiple disorders, cach of which nay vary in inridenre gruphic aren, exart posure, and apparent individual sus ceptibity."." Theee niultijde dis Farm d hgann nr nf Liner- Culla A * 4 a I ratry Mrpt tep - ! 1.44 5. 11. a a - Crater. Iles a 2 :uu ate Sarys) "wvr Apral 10, 1972 . Vol 220,
panlolalar, and emphysema: und (3) prob of the current staly tn prores Another aim is to muconiumis
symptoms, and been dinicalt ably arie workers' and
physical findinge have appear to make to make, erpecially in tions to from the faet that roal individual pneumenniosis "black ographic feature severity, dupendent upon gro- enigenographic
occupational ea
order Indude(1) prinary cont dust /utiruts.-The patients Were a un- nr - informatinn Hantry 3ledical C. nis P-na..hand State lew-rank high-ralatil cual in reanties er mel In
maculu; (2) oilicoris, (:1) ehrunic han- dergruul miners of hituminuat cnal li and uther maieeratn nona-
10346287
