WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRIBUNE D. 25,605 S. 49,326 WACO METEOPOLITAN AREA MAR S i963
F.C Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard- Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission frona going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette So long as cigarcttes are legal merchandise, it does not scem right or logical that one medium of advertising be forbidden the producer w hile newspapers, magazines, billboards and cou ntc T displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC said it is proposirg to refuse licenses o) broadcasters who carry cigarette advertisice becauso of evidence that smoking is injuriour to hoalth and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public interest. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals to do as they please so long as they doa't harm ancther. Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that il you don't mention something. maybe it won't Congressman Paul Rugers, Florida Democrat, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Coni- merce Commitice, said in reference to the proposed FCC rule that the ngancy had overstepped the bounds of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has any right 0) tell an advertiser what he could not say in Jis advertiscments, Rogers said Congress will take a close Icok at the whole question of regulations on television and radio advortising contont, not only as to the Federal Communications Commission but in regard to Federal Trade Conunission practices as The stakes involved extend beyond the business of broadcasling. They go to the beart of whe:her government burcaus PInoys he allowcd to go beyond
advertising.
Hazardous to Your Heulth."
hurt you and will disappear.
57 SS22TEO
well.
tho linits of due proccss and the law,
