slu/re
AfT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira New Yerk Timer Serier
wan bought 5.1 billion American AmeHcan cigarette promotioo about 80 New Taiwan dollars - made cigarettes last year, ringing became an issue even in receat pack (98725) compared with 22
TAIPEI The Marlboro COW- up sales of 6115 million. la "9861 trade talks betwen the United New Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for boy in his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Staics and Taiwan. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ging from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis town, His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs retisiered * ing in Japan are more liberal Com- guitar-playing jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted pive out goto free cigarettes and gifts, an aggressive campaign Television This frenetic, fast-growing na- cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawed in the United Suates in 1971. tioe of nearly 20 million pcople ly because both Taivan and Japan school students - 12, i3 years old Cigarette packagos sold in Japan emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-suandiog restrictions. are DOW smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry label that, year and for the first time, L According to the Brown & Wil- rette companies promote cigaretics toughly translated, says, "For the pubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobeco Corp. exports of like that? I's O.K. to have them sake of health doa't smoke 100 made . America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" warning much milder To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy $16 billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $1 tioms in new sales the United States. But those people mandated in the United States. Wacturers have essentially intro- ln. Japan, which has . population are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe companies aay Amencan
and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
panies can advertise on TV after
oui this city, next to posters % t peroent. a of Winston cigarettes.
KayL. amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting
for most o the growth is American be said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out
of 120 million and where people
duced cigarette advertising to the tbe American companies of entic- ing teen-agers 01 take dn moking. - charge the American companies operation that had monopolized percent by 1992. the cigarette market bad not adver- tised, altbough 11 does now, Tbe government agreed to allow .proseure from Washington In the alcohol. year since still restrictions oc for. * cigarettes were dropped. have soared, generating much- ufacturers = - time when sales in the Unilod States are down and tbe number ol anti-imoking laws in way 'dn
"uru . human being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan
ialand, and tbat has created furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes A year. that. Government officials bave accusod imports have more than tripled F
nos or much because of the adver- tising as bocause they are of better quality and taste better American with the way un cigarettes are made of blended to- and bacco and bave less tar than Tai-
the past year. The market share 8 American cigarette manufactur- la American cigarettes increased 5 E vigorously deny there any- more than percent last year, thing wrong they from 3 percent in 1986, aod the promoting their products 14) Department of Agriculture pro - ihry have no pians to change their wancse cigarettos, Tbey are not ellowed to advertixe television newspapers Nor Taiwan officials say tbey resent 00 or la American pressure to open their have they pusbed todo so, they say. markets le producta that éndanger They can advertise only througb 5 small stores where cigarettes are sold, as well a sales "This really burts our feelings, through promo- said Jaw Shau-kong a tions. Cigarette manulacturerw may zines, ol whose girculation acl- cach export to Taiwan? Younger dom excooda 200,000. and females are 1 lor Before last loreign ciga- amoking year, 2006 young attractive oent of tbe market Taiwan im- Po-rink-61 girla immoral. A rerult, imported cigarettes cost
10
which are not
botly deay.
The sorcramed-administerd dicts that it could grow to SI to 20 sales pitch.
bleaded.
others into the business oaly under people's health. like cigarettes and posiers bung near cigaretie racks or le American cigarettes in Taiwan A., tbe United Sustes docs legislator. not en- alao place 120 ada - year in maga-
peedod growth lor American man- courage its people to amoke, why
way
causc of American ada. They bire rettos accouated for leas than per- wearing short skirts 6. give me cit- posed strict quotas on foreip and then it becomos a babit. It' cigaretter and inposed stif tariffs.
According to the U.S. Depart- arettes froe in nightclubs k's a cigarettes, banned imports at the mert ol Agriculture, people in Tal- difficult lor young boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed to sell
020/9000SZ
- -
