LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday March 20, 1977
ALOOKATTESTS
To judge by the torrent of protést - a FDA has received, a sizable por- tion af the. calorie-counting public Elusive as A logic et # law may agrees. Long accustomed to a cross sein.to the general public, medical firg: A criticism from industry pur researchers say. that the- animal 3 consumer activists, the FDA has been periments uponswhich such regilato- bésieged by, citizen demands liber- decisions are baséd do have a san ate saccharin And moves areafoot 5 sibler rationale- par that. they do Cangress a amend the. Food. and bavé adirect-bearing. on risk 8 bu- Drug Actaum mas a 1 t mans. - There'sbeen 2 remendous cutcry syn true, researd acknowledge; 1. fom all:aver the country," # EDA thattherats "at thecenter of this fur- EFT spokesman la Washington said: A a consumed each day the saccharin Ttmes is lence wrter ringes from anguish to anger: We've. 1 - of reughly 1,000 eans of "never been this busy." a ba equiralent soit drink But they-con- B ban loweslorie ces it make ie a popula :A FDA: forits part: says it was it misleading-it not dishonast food additive on be strength of what 'only doing what the law required. sidèr to suggest. as the calorie counell bas, happens when hundred rats and . the law-specifically the Dela- that @ makes the resear E odfsprings eat additive in . clause inserted. in the. disparity H . ney Congress trelevant 8. humans. - cove doses? pod and Drug Act ir 1958 says that:1 Peaple who drink one can a Tae Calorie Contral Council Inc. R. "po-flecd) additive shall be deemed a saccharia soft oniy drink "run a nat. The trade daya Antanta thinks argani- tobe safe E: it is found after tests: a "comparably lower risk of cancer. But B' € ai 213 million people, commes trom manufacturers A. dietary tion of the food additives:to the collective population hazard cauld still add. for full- - cancer upto several thousand cases of blar of dallars in thelast few days - Thé clause does:not allaw E bal- dercancer a 51 : ber  Moreover, scientists note, rat - led the FD. to ba inistration for its decision 6 ban eyidence R cancer th hum saccharin. a the oniy nonnutritive- sweetener currently on the market. 32ven the 5 A is willing 8 admit there's it basic diference between d. rats and humar h" one a ad in the TEAL Street Journal:observed. S,AI- 1 another : mpie of the arbitrar matire oi big a remment a
The.Ban.on Saccharin:
9
catin whose $ 0,000 annual budgatid which are appropriate forthe evalua- food and drinic bas spent thousands: beduce safetyrat E mem or animai * a age newspaper ads acoss the coun-4 H ancing of de ma berefit. Nar does it berating the Food and Drug Ad- : redinire- the: ban tar be: based or
i
7035437
0087432
TIMN
