True-ralse Questlont on the Chenistry nnd Psychophyslology. of Odor end Flavor la H Sono modern workers suggest that nocurate mensurent of vlbrattonal frequency (in the for Infrared, for exenple) of uu unknown odorant will permlt prediction of ts quality nnd intenslty. T No elenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone hos any odor; Instead they react with the mucose fonning new products whlch ore sme lled; E T J Sone odorants have sterle or vlbrational propertles whlch force the conc luslon : they are odor less votren they are not II, in Present evldence strongly suggests the different parts of the olfactory receptor aren, llke the retina le the eye, are qua itty-spocific. T Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquld system) nor the receptor I No one yet has a - clue as to the criticol relation between the molecule no the receptor which permlts an odor perception, 1 The greater the secretion rate of aucous or sellve, the 2 gher their "Hd and both HO end temperature influence the quallty of sensation in the 111. T The Ideal instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sone quantitative range as doos an S 1 or human sub ject. 1 1 Such en Ideat detector has not tien developed. Fan observers with head In flxed position cen Aq virtue of the two Indopondest nostrils eesliy discern stereo Suoll effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier an odor on ls of the right or left hand, surti 65 orie uses hts two ears in locating the source of a sound. T For certaln musk-I iko conpounds, forty molecules ar sufficlent to trigger 4 humon olfact ory response. v. - Adotation 01 one olfactory unb lity does not signlficantly reduce sensitivity to ony other dissiel lar quality, but dons reduce sensi- tivity to au sint lar quelifies. T By employing a similarities nethod of conpering qualities, one con now obtein Identity hnd degroes of difference without recourse to trouble- vi, I Hunger louers thresholds slight ly to some food qualitios but not or 1 : is now possible to Identify the intensity and quality of a certain given stimull sieply by expert examination of the electrophysiological record taken from approprlate ndor or taste neurons. T Electrical stimuletion of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" end a "metallic" or "alkaline quality. T 1 Direct electrica stimuletlon of the olfactory senae has successfully accompllshed. VII. T à Although total anosala is rore In humans and egeus le even rarer, there ls evidence that In analogy to color vision deficiences, some people ere Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while having normal sensitivity to others. T Toplcal anesthetlcs applied to the tongue abe that dl fferent quellties 1 Certain endocrine diseese entitles make : possible for BOUR people quite sensitively to "smell" such "odor less" substances 09 sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to noreel by eanlpulation of endocrine levels. T 4 menopause woren at the time of ovulation flnd certain odors extremely disegreeable whlle at other time In the menstrun cycle these seme oders
sone elements possess taste.
surface In order to be smel 1led.
chemical senses.
Iv.
sone ar ds. others.
yor beon
50
of taste disoppear at different rates.
they will Judge quite pleasant.
