NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A to wpo Dade campaign County teenagers away from smoklng la under way bere as part of - natlon-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groupe, the society hopes to persuade - large pro- portion of the nation's young people that amoking may Jead Key wrapn la the m- palgn, le nim strip detalling à re against tebacen, It has already I shewa to 5 enth graders in 13 schools ay educatlena telesinien, Bnd will 1 breadeat tn - Kradn srience students fn the The sey enth-grade program, directed b teacher Bill Evans, inchuded a panel discussion LE which students directed ques- tiona at Dr. Francis N. Cooke, representing the Bociety. * Teachers I have talked to agree that although amoking la not - serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu- dents are approaching the age when the problem will be faced," Erene sald. I value a the nimatrips E = glves studenta logkal argument with whleh ithey eenld I te : a . when enreuraged by th - alrele et triende, be added. The tum strip la also being alim - lo senior a achools la the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October 9, 1960
Education
Cuts Fag
Youth Habits
S
American eigaret quoking can be reduced * per cent through teenage education program . à high schools These statistics were presenled Saturday by Walter G. James, director of public education for the American Cancer Society, hert for the Florida Division, ACS, annual meeting I said à - mi program : directed at leensyers as a I fer "eurbing eancer becsme el the soclety's esevietion aat staoking le I o fatal lung a prompects of reducing cigaret moking by one-fih were abonn la - pilol program conducted with 27,000 high acheol atudents ee Purtland, Ore., I ade - Soidents I perents I we I kely to 1. Smoking increased in the successive € school grades. Among boys Jumelppe in the Oregon aurvey, 143 pes cent amoked as freshmen. %.2 per cent as sopbemores, 31.1 per ent a juniars, end 35.4 a I A correspond- 3u figures for girl stodents were 46 per A 10.6 per cent, 1 or the students. 25.8 per ee of the boys smoked regularly at least enre ! a en 11.6 per cent of the girle 4. Zducation programs againat smoking reduced the mumber of new amokers I boys from 13 per cent to 1.7 & cent. and beginning girl mobers from a.4 h 11 PROGRAM EFFECTIVE I esid Che figures projected erer - four-Jear periel indicaled that & per eent P high sehool etudents could be deterred from amou through the ACS educational program A stody. le i revealed that the moet dective approach was in showing thr leng term Allect e moking, lesving the decision s a I + C Least ellective, he related - I aimple instruction not le 1 2 part el ib anti-emoking eduration I a ACS a devised 1 Ain strip illatrating affecta A he habit for screemg LE $ achool clasaroons *
to cancer.
at the Lagu. Mar Hotel cancer. chomur
a
apring.
-rearne à Hgaret pabit
a per cent and * per gent.
per cent
: e-t
NITINN
20/002686
