LOS ANGELES TI-ES Los Angeles, California October 20, 1954 nn been proved, lale l'niversity
havel uudn the premise that hination n a partirular type manerion hetw ern riea in each of : aree categories ret smokingand disease ha: has alrcady produced a sale Might Take Six Months one it is. so all can be made Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way, If not, the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Carence Cook Litte, complete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad- date, said tbat "some AE sure sisnry bnard and scientic di should wait for more defini- rector of the Toisarr Indus. ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would nne has said just what the de produre some of "the defni finitive evidenre www be." tive evidence" tn we:ch Dr He sand he "took issue" with Hammand referred. In are alk 1n the Ameriran "We wiil larkle simultan system was more important, line of the industrv's research migh: prove surcessfal in sux do not havr today Lhe months, arith it:ck. he said. menta! evidenre that * L nr
cigarette If so. scientific re- search should prove which should find one, "since ple like to smoke cigarettes. 1ry Research Committee, de- seribed the outlines nf stud- Tackle Unknwns
Expert Calls Safe Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming
for
atatistician
-oad
tive evidence before develop-
NEW YORK. Ort 19 (1LP) this virwnoint.
The evidenre connecting cig- Cancer Sneiety meeting. De eously many of the unknwns arette smoking with b ot h Hammond said the relation- in this field of tobaccn 11se in lung cancer and heart dis. ship nl rigare:te smoking to relation to human health. be ease is "ourrw helming" and the heart and the vascular said in announcing the out something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitie once about developing "a safe health. than the relationship findings in ue area where cigarette à a leading statisti- to lung cancer. 1 program to murh suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find e. safe cigarette" from bren done. The program of meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard reconizes tha: 11 e tific advisory board of the There are various types of garding the caune and clier Tobacco Industry Research tobacen, there are varinus relationshr hetwen ert rom- Committee ananceded some of types of fiters, and there are mental factors, includ n - 11e details nf :ts seicatific re- varina teehn'gues n! euring The most important srarch program 44 hich is tobaren, he Raid, and et may et up was a dinert wandv nrneet ni
Cancer
experi
Society today, At the same time the scien-
Outlines Described
mit scientific conclusions PA. smokine and lune cancer lung cancer rase: La 10 medical centers in The : in I ed States and Canada,
he that some fortuitors com- current LOS ANGELES EXAMINER los Anqe les, California October 20, 1954
It will inelude numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokers, se well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. à apecitie research grants, financed the serill be announced later.
HEALTH STUDY NO
TOBACCO NEW YORK, Oct. 19- $ < broad abx point study seek Ing knowledge whether eigarets or other forms of tobaceo cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards wa announced today. It in the first announcement of big research proxram headed by the selentifle ad. visory board of the Tobaceo In dustry Research Committen
b TIRC,
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
