458

Peptide Hormones. Growth Factors. and
Soma H (ed): Placenta Basic Research for Clinacal Application.
Int. Conf. on Placenta, Tokyo, "0661 Basel. Karser, "1661 pp 105-114
Isolation of a Xenobiotic Metabolizing
Cytochrome P-450 (P-45050K) with
No Aromatase Activity from Placental
Microsomes of Both Cigarette-Smoking and
Yoshio Osawa. Tadayoshi Higashiyama. Kenji Shimizu'.
Endocrine Biochemistry Depanment. Medical Foundation of
Buffalo Rescarch lostaute. Buffalo. N.Y., USA

Placental Proteins

Nonsmoking Mothers
Nobutaka Yoshida'

COPY

FILE

The presence of different monooxysenase activities has been docu-
mented in buman placental microsomes. The predominating cytochrome P-
450, that of androgen aromatase, catalyzes the biosynthesis of estrogens (1).
Aromatase P-450 has been tbe object of numerous studies to determine its
mechanism of action and to purify it [2, 3). Gough et al. [4) reported the
presence of another enzyme system which catalyzes the hydroxylation of
xenobiotic substances. It has also been reported that a placenta cytochrome
P-450 is responsible for the hydroxylation of benzola)pyrene via aryl hydro-
carbon hydroxylase "le-s) The low content of the responding cytochrome P.
450 in human placenta and instability during purification have made it
difficult to isolate any other active P-450 enzyme. As a side beneft sained
from our procedure to purify and characterize catalytically active aromatase
P-450 "(e) we found a fraction from the immunoaffinity chromatograph)
which showed a high level of xenobiotic activity with little contaminating
aromatase activity. Through the use ofconventional purification procedures.
we obtained a xenobiotically active P-450 with no aromatase activity.
Previous studies on aryl hydrocarbon bydroxylase activity have demon-
strated higher levels of this activity in amokers but not in nonsmokers 's) "(6
'Postdoctoral Research Fellows on leave from tbe Department of Obsteincs and

Gynecology, Okayam Univeraity Medical Senool. Okayams. Japan.

PUBLICATIONS

028242