BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
Area.stores
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For tha Delly Camera nors. kids. kar
referring to the Increased enforce- Aueuad for selling tobacco to. ml tried to Anq. Ulie cigaretles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busl- Store clerks unlucky enoueb.to _nesses this week during a crack. get'caught % sued summone doum on selling cigarettes 01 ml- to appoar ur court. The maximum The sting. conducted on the eve horis a 0025 fine of- the American Cancer Soclety's The Suna involved two tcams. Great American Smokeout, was In- Each included u uniformed omcer. tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain clothes officer and two legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School girts, Who Police targeted gas stations, -005 sun parenis signed a waiver al- venience, drug, grocery and dis. lowing them to take parinthc.op: "lay has never beeri enforced, said The Juvenlles wero told not to JOPInOAL Policc Officer Mary Man plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "We're letting the stores know had to show identification.
court "saus mun, recently the eratlon. this ic going to happen," ahc sald,
the cigarettes. and, if asked. they (Gce DOULDER Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry 28uh SL, one of the girts asked when she Was jestied a Gum: the cashler for a pack of Marl mone, ous cald oho wus a stur boro Lights. Oflicer Rob Hauke- dent and couldn attord the ness, In plaln clothes, po013 In court costs. HATIKEness pou) "01 "the-hahlnd her to witness thç gionyos hor, saying she --nos A placard near the cash regis. the Distriet Attorney to do com ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity acrvice Inatcad of paying A clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clorks, not the store own:- cation- The buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the. she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it to .usiund cd at the license, sel it down on stores or clerks, she said. "Al-: the counter. and sold her the though, when you 000 clerks Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Police targeted : stepped dn and identified him dolos and clerks at but four eeli 03 o police officer, Manka recelved summonses. came In and wrote the clerk a Thie wock'a TrailM. I see them ask for an year. ThA first sting. condueted E I think they're going to 2 in Scptember, targeted 16 stores: fuse the cale," Haukeness sald. and ST clerks received RUMP:
(From Page 1C)
The clerk at Colony Market,
transaction.
Atquqaid work out a deal-with-
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the nne, driver's license, which showed court costs.
cigarettes. summons.
ing, you might think otherwise X13 - was the: operation secund tobacco sale stine this
"But they never do."
monses.
092990FF06
