-9- 4
Makersof Cigarettes Claim)olnterestin MaN YORK IA Ciga TONE TOBACCO company rette manufacture Tuesday official noted that the staff say chey have no hterest in report recommendation was diversifying to market mari- Eta legalize marijuana for per- juana, despite talt report suort over 18 years of age of the National Commission amight be a lower age brack- on the Causes and Preventlon ol Violence 4hich Zrecom- aet. JAAA or mends legalization "pot" adults. for "No, no no,/no, A years and that zave a cadse to check There is no at proach to: this anywhere; - the underground - doesn't carry story about et L how tobacco companies arei gearing a for the marifuana trade, dded:James Bolling, vice president and assistant chairman Philip Morris, * 2 X He PES ausmey this type of "speculation Xinas a under- standable, ne tobacco com- panies aré publicly beld, and Japun strict govermment con- trol; no one can eved remote- ly thecome thyolved because at the preseht Gme mari- juana b" illegal. - a There have been persistent stories that "tobaced com- panies already have regis- tere d a possible brand names (rademarks that in- clude some of the current ve- nac ular associated with marijuana, and that they have been buying up huge tracts ol land in Mexico on which to harvest marljuana. wwkrerve "WE'RE NOT filing for trademark names like 'Aca- pulco Gold' or buying land south of the border, COFB, mented abr .
F
Pot'
Awhile the biggest market à - "Mary Jané sort ol goes a the youngsters, com- mented Sam Fouts. advertis ing manager for Larus Bros. been a rumor or Pn: last (wo & Co.. o Ricbmond, Va. ary Jane is an old nick- thoroughty, pame for marijuana but gen- - has fallen M erally industry. among the young. Arais 3 William Kloeptef: ol thé To € à Fouts, noting that mari- bacco Institute, declared. un 45 Juana la "still a rather taboo h s "THERE ISNT " month topic" emphasized that his goes by thatsome segment of, dustry, "wouldn't touch it company : press
Into disuse in the cigarette in-
Inc.
