PKJ pre
Carcinogenesis vul 13 nu a rp.2721-2725, robi
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosanino-1-(G-pyridyl-butandne and benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
C3420
chemopreventive agents
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Flealth Foundation. Valhalla, NY 10595. USA
models examined to date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the A/J mouse because previous
The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer In smokers, Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression 01 by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-py 1)-1-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of Cemale A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastric a'deara (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of intraperitoneal injection (L-p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis Kq NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and 17.12-dimethylbenzilbenzlalanthracene (9,10). either 9 or 12 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the AlJ mouse to evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The ig. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung lumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than l.p. administration, (4,11.12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse car be replicated because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injectionsite and associated mortality. A dose response (PEITC) is an elfective inhibitor of lung turnor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by ig. administration NNK in both the A/1 mous and F344 rat (11,13) mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens This may not he realistic with respect 03 tobacco of 24 umol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP, are important Comparisons of NNK and BaP given individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke un. when given by the ig. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effeets of chemopreventive agents given either were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP. The most favorahle dosing reginien of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluation of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 umol of each, administered in eight weekty smoking in addition, the model should he relatively rapid and subdoses ig., with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive Therefore. we examined tumor yields obtained dosing. This reginen induced 10.5+4.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen. 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethylisothiocyanate. given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure I). This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung prelimianry test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP. thls study provide a convenlent model for assessing the NNX was synthesized in the Americas Hatt Foundadon Organie Syethesis efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. Its purity was establited lq HPLC as >997 BaP (98% purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which Amadran Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A diri containing 58 corn oil. on previously 2 play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups ef 15 as sammadized in Table 1 At and 7 veeks each mouse was kers: 9u0u010-1-04PUSusoSONMUNDUNA)+ (NNK") treated by intraperitoneal (ip.) injection or by latragastie gavage € with and benzolalpyrene (BaP) E NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical in 0.1 ml cononsed oil. NNK and BaP were bola carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung im all rodent dissolved in the 0.1 E used for treatment Injections and gavages sere carried 6 *Albreslations: NNK. 4*mathylaimino)-tell-H3-prisi-l-busment indisitual dose was cae -eighth of the sotal. Equimolar doses of NNK and aan, benzol-lpyrens; PEITC, pheneilyl isothiocyanale; BITC, benayl Bar were used in most of ibe combination groups, bacause the amounts of
whlch these 015 tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
Most previous studies in the A/) mouse have examined We sought to develop a model which could be used 01
5.9: 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inbiblting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
BITC (98% purity) and PEITC (93% purity) were abtained trom the Aldrich Chrmical Company (Milwauke, with Coftonseed oll : purchased froment Female All mice. age 2 week wene obtoined from The Jackson Laboraty (Bar Harbor, ME), They were hnusd under standard conditions in the The desiga of thr bioassay i: illustrated la Figure 1 A mice were divided out for & consecutive werks The toral doses ar given in Tuble L Each NXX and antal carcinogenie polyeyelie hydrocarbons in tobaceo smoke are
Sigma Chemical Co (S) Louis, MO).
Introduction to
agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
isothiocyanaie, P intraperitoncall, e intragastie gavage.
o Oxford University Press
2721
