NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A to woo Dade campaign County teenagers away from amoking la under way bere as part of a nation-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groups, the society hopes to persuade - large pro- portion of the nation's young people that amoking may lead Key urapnn la Uhe E palgn, le alm strip detalling à rase against tobacen, It has already I shown to - enth graders in 13 schools dy educational televinion, and will 1 brnadcant tn auaih gradn acteace students ta the The a enth-grade program, directed b teacher Bill Evans, inchuded a panel discuesion LE which students directed ques- tiona at Dr. Francis N. Cooke, representing the society. : Teachers I have talked to agree that although amoking la not - serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu- dents are approaching the age when the problem will be faced," Erane said: : value A the nimstrips € it gives studenta logkal argument with whleh ithey eonld I te : h . when enrouraged by th : atrele et trienda, ba added The Kum strip la also being ahmwn a to senior a achools in the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October 9, 1960
Education
Cuts Fag
Youth Habits
S
American eigaret moking can be reduced * per cent through leenage education program la à high schools These statistics were presenled Saturday b Walter G. James, director ol public educalion for the American Cancer Society, here for the Florida Division, ACS, annual meeting I said a I m program : directed at leensiers as . I for "eurbing cancer became d the soclety's eeevietion dhat smoking h i of fatal lung 2 proepects of reducing cigaret smoking by one-fifth were ibonn le - pilol program conducted with 2,000 high achool students e Purland, Ore, 1 ade a sondenta Y parents 1 were I kely to 1. Smoking increased is the successive de school grades. Among boys 3ugedonnd in the Oregon aurvey, 14.5 pes cent smoked as freshmen. 11 per cent as sopbemores, 1L1 per eent as juniors, and 15. a I A correspond- Su figures for girt stodenta were 4.6 per I 10.6 per cent, 1 or the students. 258 per cem a the boys smoked regularty at least onre ! as did 116 per cent of the girls . Education programs againat smoking reduced the mmber of ne umokers I boys from 13 per cent to 1.7 k cent, and beginning girl emokers from L4 la 1r PROGRAM ETFECTIVE I esid Che figures projected ever - four-ggar peried indicaled that R per eent P high school etudents could be deterred hrom Supgour through the ACS educational progrem: A stody, ly E revealed that the most ditactive approach war in showing the long tarm Klect of moking, lesving the decision s 4 I + C Least ellective, he related - F aimple instruction not is i 2 part d ib entiemoking education I a ACS 3 devised - Aim strip inuatrating allecta a the habit for Kreming i 1 school claseroons -
to cancer.
at the Lagu. Mar Hotel cancer. clomure
a
apring.
- a Hgaret habit
: per cent and * per sent.
per cent
: g+
Narin
20/00a2686
