HKE2228112 SANTA RAR I . 2 :
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
11
44 a RE
tass - 2 -1 E a FAPARTMI 7 : sibutta January 3, 1977 Dr. Willian H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Research roundation 715 Huir Lands Visto Hay La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. Fishman: and Salk.
La : - HOMMA 3
e
We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of the La Jolla resci rch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla Cancer Research Founr ation and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establisnrent of E focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmenta prublems is particularly ieely. It will be 0 o:at potential importance for pulling tegether work, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, characteriztaion and doternination of the significance of huran oncodevelopmental antigens such as alphafetoprotein and carcinoembryonic antioens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship of increased serua concentrations of AFP to preralignant lesions or carcinogen exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systers clearly derion- strate tne t anirals pasocixo to hepatocarcinouens have clevated serum AFP concen- trations prior to developrant of Falionant lumers. It is hoped that systeratic study of huran scra frun differect sources uill determing if serum AFr concun- In addition, the role of env irumental factors such as hormonal influences on the production of oncodevelopimental gene prihts can be further explored in different sy: tems. Such data inplics Lhat (he prod;u tion of oixcodevelopmental gene products by tunor cells is net a fixed property of a given tumor but is We look fonrard to working with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the important subjert of oncodeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoger exposure.
subject to environmertal controls.
expression. Best regards, Stewart Srl1, M.D. Professor SS/nb
