r Chroe Dis Vol. 38 No. . PP 17-26. 1985
Priated in Great Bntain. All rights reserved

0021.90 85 53 8 oon
Copyright C 1985 Pergamon Press Lid

PSYCHOSOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ADOLESCENT
SMOKERS BEFORE THEY STARTED SMOKING:
EVIDENCE OF SELF-SELECTION
A PROSPECTIVE STUDY
CARL C. SELTZER and FRANK W. OECHSLI
Peabody Museum. Harvard University. Cambridge. MA 02138 and the Child Health and
Development Studics, School of Public Health, University of California. Berkcley.

CA 94720, USA.
(Recrired in rerised form 17 dugust 1984)

Abstract Evidence of noncomparability of sell-formed smoker and nonsmoker groups of
adolescents from the Child Health and Development Studies of the University of Califomia.
Berkeley. wai found e a study of antecedent psychosocial characteristics (observed at age 10)
before the adoption of the smoking habit. With possible confounding factors controlled, eventual
smokers showed significantly greater prevalence than nonsmokers of Type A personality traits,
euraversion psychoticism. anger. and nestless sleep Eventual smokers were lower is socio
econ omic Ltatus than nonsmokers. and alun eshibited significantly lower mean seores for the
Raven Progressive Matrices and Peabody Picture Vocabulary lesis For cach trait. the trends of
the fata were consistent in boys and girls Since many of these traits are shown to "track into
adult life ahere they are hen rdated to coronary heart discase. the role of self-sclection requires
further considération in cauulal inferences about smoking und coronary heart discase.

INTRODUCTION

IN RECENT years, many published studies have shown an association that suggests a role
for psychosocial factors in the puthogenesis of CHD [1. 2]. In the Framingham Study.
univariate and multivariate analyses showed a positive relationship of certain psycho-
social factors to CHD and also to cigurette smoking [3- 5). The pervasive question of
temporal precedence and a priori self-sclection still requires further clarification. however.
In the absence of controlled experiments. the effects of cigarette smoking on health have
been inferred from observational studies that compare persons who smoke with
nonsmokers. la these comparisons. the disease outcomes are assumed to occur in cohorts
of smokers and nonsmokers who were initially similar in all relevant characteristics except
for the difference in smoking habit. Very little evidence has been available. however. to
The unique data of the Child Health and Development Studies (CHDS) of the
University of Califomia. Berkeley. provide ur opportunity to check this assumption by
examining antecedent characteristics associated with teenage smoking [6-8]. The CHDS
is a prospective investigation of children from birth to late adolescence. At various stages
of their development, the children were examined SE to their biological. social. and
in this report. we have analyzed the antecedent psychosocial characteristics of a large
cohort of boys and girls before some of them later began cigarette smoking as teenagers
Reprint requests should he addressed to: Frank W. Oechsli, Child Health and Development Studies,
This project was supported in Grant 1447 from the Peabody Muurum Harvard Liniversity

verify this assumption.

personality status, as well as environmental and familial influences.

2131 University Ave.. Berkelev, CA 94704, = -

8 38/1-

17