WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRIBUNE
D. 25,605
S. 49,326
WACO METROPOLITAN AREA
MAR 9 ise3

F.C Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard- Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission froni going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are lega! merchandise, it
does not sccm right or logical that onc medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer a hile
newspapers, magazines, billboards and cou ntc 1
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal
and to look again at the federa! Jaw, which expires
Junc 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC said it is proposirg to refuse Jicenses
03 broadcasters who carry cigarette advertisine
because of evidence that smoking is injuriour to hcalth
and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public
intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals to do
as they please 50 long as they doa't harm another.
It also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that if you don't mention something. maybe it won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democrat, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com-
merce Commitice, snid in reference to the proposed
FCC rule that the ngancy had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. le said he doubts that FCC has
any right 01 tell an advertiser what he could not
say in his advertisements, Rogers said Çongress will
take a close Icok at the whole question of regulutions
on television and radio advortising content, not only
as to the Federal Communications Commission but
in regard to Federal Trade Commission practices as
The stakes involved extend beyond the business
of broadcasling. They go to the heart of whether
government burcaus pinoys he allowcd to go beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Heulth."

hurt you and will disappear.

57
88221804

well.

tho linits of due proccss and the law,