-
SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H. complaints associaled with the sick building syndrome
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire The symptoms were more common .B build-
In a cross-sectional invesnganon in one building. office buildings built over the last OS years with - validated were meatured & a linear analog scale questionnaire. dui where the ventilation system also provided cooling and Ar the same time, the micro-environmen (environmental humidification. irrespective of the age of the buildings. A characterittics in the breathing zone 1 than area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air samples) - characterized by measuring temperanure, quality parameten ans not described. Skov et a (1967) ex- relarive humidity, respirable suspended perticulases, car- amined indoor air quality symptoms la 14 modern [ bon dioxide. noise level, lighting inuensiry, relacive hu lown halis and 14 older control buildings. A I ol symp midiry, and airflow. No relarionship E seen between toms was related 01 "feecing" factor (carpets, upholstery. the degree of symptoms and age. educarion, or duration and horirontal surfaces) sad the "macro-molecular compo of employment e the building or time spent in the build- nent" of dust. They also demonstrated - relationship berween Shn on . daily basis. Starissically, complains were the oumber of hours spent photocopying and using carbonles significantly more frequent among smoking men. Envi- copy paper and the level of complaints. Other Hudies have ronmental characteristics associated 1 the increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et à 1985) complaint levels in this group included decreased airflow and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute models, there - an association benween respirable A cause of complaint in the sick building syndrome b I pended particulates and the levels of boch mucous mem- suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertaon et brane and systemic complaints. Sarisfaction wish the al. (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. thermal environment as predicted by perception of 1 ferences la the concentrations of environmental pollutants R no clearty contribute a the degree of symptoms, berween rooms la a mechanically and - naturally ventileted although regression models E I dhar complaints building. They studied the rooms with the 1 comp were not independent of thermal parameters. Lighting rates and used area samples. Skov a al. (1987) did ! inaensiry a also associated 1 complaints. I strate - relationship berween symptoms and both area - snudies of the 1 building syndrome should examine ples measuring dust and - "macro-molecular" traction. again
a
velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended i to indoor air quality complaints
ticulases 7 dry-bulb semperature. In regression
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
multiple exposures simultancously and include prycho in area samples. I measures a idenify predictors of complaints in
Area samples la buildings may not x representative of the exposures is different points in single rooms. Paysical characteristics soch a windows and partitions, computers. and sbelving may infuence air currents. Radiant heat may different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroe-
indoor I INTRODUCTION
Complaints termed the € building syndrome" have lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, mos t led to numerous investigations in the last is years. They are hutants resuh from point sources, os they will be diluted as thought to occur primarily s newty constructed ofice I subject .n farther removed from the soarce. A micro 4 inp and, at least in the pest, were thought to be due to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very wide variety of causes have been identibed le specifk settings, meat of building. le addition, all applied occupational and inchuding inadequate temperature and relative bumidity $ environmental bealth research that attempes to relate dose to trol, noise, lighting. vibration. volatile organic compounds heakh effects I from the problem that I a generally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, environmental sobacco measured e several points in time and then extrapolated lo umoke, pesticides, i entrainment of vehicle exhaost or allow developmem of exposure classifications oreent decades spent and contaminated air and boiler I fbers released # most heakh effects are measured as . # resuk of from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sampling < proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnepan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints - related pri day to day but from hour to bour. such - stratep most fail (Robertson et al. 1985) was unable to identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the micro- wet-bulb globe temperature, dry-bulb temperature (temper- environment and set these characteristics in relation os a ature). relative humidity, air velocity, formaldehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at . given point in I This itive or negative ons between several rooms in . building report presents results of cros-sectional investigation of with narural and a building with mechanical ventilacion, problem building using - self-administered. linear analog. where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom E I a Amaunt Profesor of Medicine und ol Industrial and Environmental Heahh Soences at the Univeruty of Pasburgh Schoob of Medicine and Public Heahh. P. Collepy a Director. Enviroomental Heahh and Salery, Camepie-Mellon Univeruty. Pirtsburgh FA
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelen,
(Kreiss and Hodgson 1964; Hodgson and Kreiss 1986). marily 01 mechanical ventilation. A I proup of authors
results is greater than the difference a avenge samples, and No investigations in € peer-reviewed literature have
3us
