12
EATIN rre R G H
New! Improved! Dangerous?
With More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium, Experts Fear Thric Reactions
Bu Arar les Lasunge Soncint a 1 Eadinghm Rat - Sor hare 1 fas kachting a la DE sand wit Sollowed in on ul lun in the lote aftorenon. A4 - then A beefor chick a und . comple et wgetables topped with mongrine, filuwed lar dely multivits necavrac min mineral off kor nutritional invarance The, while entching TV in the evening balteup (olas, cap) u ke creun Sounds prrity iensonable, right? Actually, depending on the hrants ye LURCH danite, yust $ tacen PUDOO ne be tween 3000 and 3300 miligrams JPU cald am sicaticantly tatee thas à "Tulevable Upper touke Level" of 005re millymans set hry the the National Arademy of Skienees AFTERNOON SNACK (NAS). Sn mathi 1 are tow fortifind with ralclure ithut a Ses hresere cad teader 80,00 sontes the safety Nent Ant that hus xane EU DINNER trition Nacen date ouncernel An whh anything toe 1 cas x . 1/2 oup hroccol tapoed wa pruhlem says Richard Wiod, chiet of dho Mineral Noomilabity Labontory af the itenan Nutrition Reseanch Center at Tufts University in Boston. The window between aume letade and the upper Smin a rede Cons - siheely rmall Indend, the feguate intaler EVENING SNACK mhhibhilty thu NASin 1.000 to 1,300mil Tyrama dan depending en am Oide twice Cost macketadin Gant ant Safeentyl shat 2 E you've reanted the safety celing 2 many other putrienta, yourd TOTAL Sim hefore maching risk levels What can happes a you take in too avach cadeius oves ( Wood sugs thene have I "on the onder d 30case reports ofcal cium tonicity, whkh 5 manidest iterle a A Numme pesbaps Inse some a the funclion. the wacnd is caded, can pany xine balance
much non skium than E lant lof the e real enntalant 300 in 400 mtrionam af de mineral or ocer - Pardur's Weaver Sir pen ele net utetting nely 200 in 400 mitioprams a (calckan dalty U coreal ppas stis K ux Ad. Anda los et people do ot ond der 1 Wand crecure ar your don drink - e caurma rama mith, your culrium a notion is alamt 300 lo 400 milli tramm - h Reys, 1.000 110 yu rule of thumb people shouki 350 30 know 300 120 wid the exocptionel Ileancy though de rescarchere agrée that ith salest aot tn 2 sanve dore 2,500 silligramsufedrian (ban daily, regardare R variations a abeorption 81 tatca "Cinunt 6 Woaver uys. Mak NON 272 107 partent gringalent DONE 150 130 Wod anys Car ataylagwithin die En h partinlar enncern it Maunchals with NS 200 - truliur trying à Not avere enlciun anr hat 145 leennge son utho already gets alenty he der diot of the unount et foodhe exts Sie L3 20 142 might tran calciura furtitiod pronun julee, a - 47 26 due for I 4 eerend and an an, hut 31 17 ho anazles mill en hiler a - le omtaise a en - 217 aller forelelt practire has . ongatef ne a tot 50 bowts at ecreal a an afterachod ann * E cuuld cisily be geiting fhresands of 1 162 - Reram of calcham Waod and other rescerchers de agrey GOO 260 dat N'sbent so prt your ealcium from mant etr ne finds rather than coe or two heavilly furtified enex and dut ot kmt sour of R 3,304 1,487 should coment faxent an and other dairy gaod leen levar in mapirsitm, rihnflavin. vitamle . and vitamin prali mable in m Dalry was idind n oncatop shupping A uon locacarch Conter a Tuta b particularty that . I withald conventra I Fleet, . mineral researcher at Pur
A Calcium-Fortified Das 3/4 cs - a en fan fortified Vhre Mald erange hle LE un a de pare - et Setas Chovar Wandur Engha 1 Natu-Oaln bar n ea Alians ONStan Lerave tap Shedas 1 Courten Crod Ra Callum haled potate, acpes wich tose Shest a N Ca Price Pa Calnim NE cup Drear Calelum Ra vanilia ice cream
The enklemen mecemendation for teenagen le DOET milligrams adults to age sn, lem forulied foods oe the market today, in cass to comminur more Chen 2500 an x Tulcrable Upper Intrke Lovel set En the National Araleng at un dies of only 000's ralurios Ched a the Kallumint mena
hunet DE cerea E 15 das L000 milligrams: and aduhs Sleglus, 1.200 miligrans. Het with the dovens of
lave E hacroane the alegante intahe many - I ander - - . - - - and - - : 1 de FE - ucte "IGsturighty Weaver explans, pee thom, liainens und wolt thoue C ifiration Olhers agne that calctumbrtified 6xode agres She 2 queations the LOND E H = - ane mare amee a you le à The hideyn, made de and thaue, "might br ame 1 reesonatile optien. a Carece the conorpt lumans nl rakclum new I to every serr Ing So get cakhan het THE nreassirily thee pur induly winembir." 2 reemerks, and a butificution," sivs Kobert Heaneg - ealc ingeffital ecreal, PLL an exceasive leve ether anstances from rolrimint fortiller Thon. ton, Agpercalcemile. as toxicity et Onuha And unlie Wund, he's not partic R an anprecndented evel probubly higher Inwin Rosenberg Cherton of the Nutri lave hada stone in the part Too marh calr who consume lots more than Ithel T he e 5 the quaka in the 1 sherpation tin ofa singk nutrient will lail people intu an can ala redoce abaurgtion of two other claima Some populations whs depend on a DE calcium. Tot you abarb - calcium a thinklor they're nouriding themelves ade coxutialminerakeros and ne the Extice A largedy en tion diet. wart a conterds In you hares ALLONdon thrunghont the das quately. "Yue dont eet of 4 howk of vel wtuch h acccesant for wound braling and Eas Atrica and the Lapps athe Lenireindeor à NOVE That's win pougk athe ube 600 Lig prudeut dictary cholces because aut paper houctionhe a the leamune - le northern Scandinavin, "Lypicaliy Ket6000 Bailligans worth of ealchum wapplewents pachedone - tan heavily fortified Nodu lu While unth penblems have beee rase wotal about which toods the miners 1 to be condaded haunwlubatity teling SN Total's your bones completely proterted and be auw re uperusariet sbelves rabes de Eur inclanse. Brever'sismuw levi nauket I thet the euklan in the retel le de dennity is - strengthened ler excrdan," he thrvet a thrie heming more common Ine loe envam thel contalon 300 mitagrams sorted and an welas themkium in milk. Ror sys Andir weakend hy loo linde vitamin Nint Uhit Wood thinks eakkum-fortified ofcalciem per halkeup inatead of the typical every 300 mitimama nf ralcium consunind D. which is neoessary for calclum absorp Sookarea had thing 1 think lhey E Bond 100 mitigrams and Heaney remarks, Tve (the amount le on of mbk), the body ab Brnand perfaps he too mach sodjus not - he auve "Avernus latakes are anuch 84 mixod lochng s the juek lood situr sorbs 100 mitigram or ronghly X7 pereent calicine. Buth substances wuth du flunh the be ran whenen 20 le 29 yrare 4 averupr Adds Connle Vilenver ouchum lavestiga du abrorgitine rate exe doan, n you have S other wenla, as Hung 1 a "calet whon then shoukl he conwsing 1,000 da la Tdhate tosee pecpk use the cacine of 1 cuntains I 000 milligrams 1 cuase you tve 1 a bml a Tutal doenn't Teraux And wumen 65 and Epp who necdingtogel 180000 calcian toeat lots Awirelles to 15 pervent alcet 150 mi moan vos ve rosered all the hosex lee laouly about leh Unt umount ica sim problem while making another onn Iprevs onn serving mupplica .000 mitigrama, yeu EutingRighzeubummat Laurme hoftre inne an the onder of R to yo unil Rous Dunsuce Hache chief of the Calci Inclant minis, yualrenet nhauxhingblerribly Owirvrwite Hrafth Nidritium Lellen
- inter 1000 I . - . I 4 - Rame 1 1 1 1 a a 1 ple ato have Licen deficient la radcium have
un aral Bune Metabuli-eu Lab at Tults, Gis package à nutrieuta de 1 8 a
um researcher at Crelichton University fr R fortification, xhe onmunents le certalnir 1 Naines utarty ocecerned about anycee L ever than de aing uder cakture furtalied fund.
stone furmation, partirularly peogle whu board "There lote et very healchy
hea acens
be reservations, too, concerned
Mapplage
are
pegple Wenver
- I atudy a peertinengannal ande to 0002 milligrans ef " per t and de in advined te sunnll Frat theit taa 300 suys I Wund wporta "Highcalrin lis-te te heve "absohately so probicins, he soys miligam palle it fifferent narab
Fhr he and lothers do luvie sone reservations Heangy denstrated the point when he das periote cat, tuo dhes yerdoelt esen have
suw, F plethura a calchun Hortiried Reum addol to, exh louner ithan de recommentations H lun only abut 700 millyrums of caddum
prodares General Mms a one land, hr Cause aunos getting a of cuddunt "Beae Iut an the odrium in I mral iours un mineral from the INAly via Lhe urinc. ahaorb seh abunt ISOof thret, Hrancy Nation Lindner Ce convtion alitorofthr nytr
tor at Pardue Univernity le Wist Lalayette, (hree to Faxr eups a onilk in one sting- un le only ene part et the punde Just he
Aboukd he voutine 1,300 mitigrams, are sak a Eu and calortes Then youre solving ock Fgrams, as the sanae with the Rat Since
Gr don for men althomgh the gage for thren innce Ale-pep I
