True-Talse Questions on the Chenistry and Psychophyslology. of Odor and Flevor 1 H Sone nodorn workers suggost that nocurate mensurenent of vibrattonal frequency (in the for Infrared, for exanple) of ue unknown odorant will permit prediction of ts quallty nnd intensity. T No elenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone hes eny odor; Instead they react with the mucose fonning new products whlch are sme Iled; I T . Sone odorants have sterle or vibretional propertles which force the conc luslon : they are odor less when they are not I1, - Present evidence strongly suggests thet different parts of the olfactory receptor aron, Ilke the retina to the eye, ere qua itty-spocific. T Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (1iquid system) nor the receptor L No one yet has a re clue as to the criticol reletion between the molecule and the receptor which permlts an odor perception. 1 The greater the secretion rate of evcous or sellve, the a gher their "Hd and both HO and tomperature influence the quallty of sensation in the 111, T The idenl instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sane quantitative range as doos an S 1 or human sub ject. 1 - Such en Ideet detector hes not heen developed. Fran observors with head In fixed position cen Aq virtue of the two Indoponder.t nostriis easlly discern stereo snall effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier nis odor on is et the right or left hand, andh 65 one uses hts two ears in locating the source of a sound. T For certaln musk-1 iko conpounds, forty molecules ar sufficlent to trigger - hunon offact ory response. v. - Adaptation 04 one olfactory unb lity does not significantly reduce sensitivity to ony other dissiel lar quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to ell sint lar quelities. T By employing a slmilerities nethod of conpering qualities, one con now obtein Identity and degroes of difference without recourse to troble- vi, 1 Hunger louers thresholds slight ly to some food qualltios but not for 1 : is now possible to Identify the intensity and quality of a certain given stimull sieply by expert examination of the electrophysiologicel record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons. T Electrical stimulotion of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" end 8 "metallic" or "alkaling quality. T . Direct electrica stlmuletion of the olfactory sense has successfully accompllshed. VII, 1 à Although total anosela is rore In humans and egeus le even rarer, there ls evidence that in analogy to color vision deficiences, some people ere Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while having normal sensitivity to others. T Topical anesthetles applled to the tongue show that di fferent quellties 1 Certain endocrine diseese entitles make = possible for :0me people quite sensitively to "snell" such "odor less" substances 09 sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to normal by eanlpulation of endocrine levels. T d onenopause wonen at the time of ovulation find certain odors extremely disegreeable whlle at other times In the menstrun cycle these 5670 odors
sone elenents possess taste.
surface In order to be sme Iled,
chemicel senses.
Iv.
sone or ds. others.
yer beon
50
of taste disoppear at different rates.
they will Judge quite pleasant.
