.

Kou

RAP

AMERICAN. JOURNALOF
Public
Health

Editorial
Volume 77, Number -
ANred I MD. MPH

May 1987 Established 1911

EDITOR Less Hazardous Smoking and the Pursuit of Satistaction
Cigareites deliver drugs: al roet smoking is drug laking Seventhe wuk 2
conhrmed nicotine as powerfully reinforcing psychoactive drug Fur the evum-
ASSISTANT EDETOR er, then; ulina low yield cigarelies raise the simple ussus uf Jruk ulling un
] I I DPH adulteration The unsatnfactorines of ultra low yieldcigarenes 11 seen nahe - E ay
2 cutomers for Ihese pauducts even in heakh cons nous Cabfornu As nuted by
Maron and Fortmann in that insue of the Journal, only N pe cent of MINEE in
population based sample smuke cigarettes in the range61 0 lu 0 mg nh unene lux
BVR € Despre the publicay about dinease nuks of smuking and ahe wwepread
Chaiperaon belief that ultra lone yield cigarentes are lens 2 ardou is munt imeters ull nus 1
Doris Bloch, RN. DPH (1989 the Hree for these cigareties, les alone walk the advenued mile
No double umokers have routinchyned ulura lom yicle crgaresses and
Joy o. Dryfoos: HA uves) routincly have rejected hem an furtyumun A ma € 0 me nicutin, 1 a
Manin u Favere no (1988) delivers abes 80 per cent diluting air in eesh ou taken by - smoking ma Rines
Frederick C Green MD (1988) Thos smokers -ho learn K inchs of compensatory umuking are mare hkely lu
Mary Grace Kovar. DEPH M3 un persisi in smoking these cigarelies than are those smukers : do not deveke
utisfactort compensation sanbiugan For ulira low ywld carenes. the main -
smoking lechnioves are blus hang the diluting air venti on hiters wHh ho or hngers,
Kenneth D Rogers, MD MPH (1987) taking larger puffs, 1 as Maron and Formann remund us sumph smok ing Brune
Tena T MA MB (1989) cigarenes per day . smeke sell vriecusin 1 icompensators remain num
Ferundo M Trevine RD urn 11987) compensators leave ma cause auch of the discouraging panern lount in L
Experimental Endrar Recent eapenment shure - more ene ouraging pic fure
E Devid Wray, MD. HTH - R whal might be ganed from the wwespread use uf ulara low yeld H etics by
smokers who refuse lo quit smoking Wes et al . randomiy assigned 14 muse lu
remain wwh their om hrand (average ma orcunt 14 - m tar I 12 umukers
STATT le switch le an uhra las yeld hrand (0 ma nacoline mg tar ' Cour 10 Jays ul
Willam H MeBeach. HD MPH smoking the ultra low yield group had plasma nicotins levels that - unh 40 3
Eserutive DiveckoriManeging Editer cent of the own brand proup i9 a V1 22 . ngimin carbon vonos ude le veh Jiflered by
Adrisens E mo of per CEM (10 1 V3 = 2 ppm) IAlihough nue noted un the Mruhnd un nuk en EIC
Padkeran Drectur explicaly insuructed not to hinch hiser venus IK West, Perwnal Communkatun)
Deyne Banky Simularly in the expenmental cumponent uf ihen repon Benuwit a al hund
Anistem Manngang i panial compensation in umukers -ho ante lotued lex umose uhra lum yickl garciles
Marve Barnen iBchavioral blucking of hlier venus : not lorbidden in this Mudy bul may have hsen
A combened lesson of the cruns secimal surveys and Ihe forced set hung
1 I hatire expenments is that if there is lo he ma amal progress with the current sivie ultra hre
Markes Dobbs yiek cigareile #s use Areds lo x ens ouraged mure forcefully. Une ul the Ramen
1 thaladyemaing Aurunat smokers due a put up : ulua lune yelds 15 that higher yeld cigarene Jae only an
easy purchave --ay Imagine - chusulate lover las 2 wuth en enu : unel un 4
desen nland sus à candy maghi seem ireal but in - shu ke candy vine theve
CON UBUTING LDITORS pseudox hex plaie would gaiher a especially a they were 1 even cheaper than
ir cigarette manufas uren were requared € make only lw Lan cigarenes
Hugh H Tuhon MD, Dens grealer eflect on eapesures lo smoke FORENS than the 3 un the wwe upen mas ker Junt
Noera I H I as drug conient of medication: is sincily regulated, au uhund be Jrue yicld ul sigarette
I Connelky E imcis Many smukers would over imutke ihese carties La break ung ull hite A
1 i blocking vent holes and by smoking grealer numbers per day And surns vmuk a

EDITORIAL BOARD
Mary F. I DPH (1987)
Irene H. Butier, no (1987)
Jaan haure HD Mri (19es)
Philie G. Meiler MD usedy

Juluia A Walle MD uses reviewed in the curreni report

FaNaxial Autistant discouraged by delails of the procedure y
George 1 Aanes ar MPH the more satislying choc colates
Barburs G Rosenk I PhD (guarding againsi more problemats biner

Michefi Hories
1 1 - * La
I 1 Then 1 Nom
5 May 1907 Val 77 No. -

theve cigareties maghi has

desagns").

530

2501662717