H K82223022

Life Sciences Vol. 15. dd 1291-1300
Pr inted in the E

Perganon Press

a ROLISM a RENTO 3 PYRTE BY KICROSONES FRON
TT or PRECOUNT AND FITAL HETERE
Iress T. Manz, Ronald E. Ra smunsen, and T. Timothy Crocker*
Cancer Research Institute, Untveraity of California, San Pranciaco, and Depart-
-ent of Community ard Environnantal Medieine, Oniveraity of California, Irvine*.
(Received in final form 26 August 1974
Summary
Pretreatment of hansters with benzo (a)pyrene (BaP) grestly Incressed
uhe i vitre artabol in of Par by lung alerosonns fron prognant han-
atar : and p leus eftect on the metabolt I of € I 1iver atere-
somee. # produetion of various matahnitan of Rap b luns nuere-
sonos war inereaned to different extentar 3-hydrexy-BAP (3-CH-BaPi
was one of the naser matabolitan the netabolic yielde of 9,10-
dihydrodihytroxy-mar (9,10-diol) and 1,0-diol vere Increased Hore
than that ef the - .S-diel. to the ehse of liver nterosonae, only the
yields of 9,10-diol and 7,8-diol wara incresed ovar the contrel
levels, The presence of eyclohexene oxide in the incuba tion nix-
tures decreaned the production of the diole. Dasal-level anryme
activit Le in placental, fetal liver, and fetal ekin micrononer in
metaholizing RP vere very low, Pretreatnent of pregnant hans ters
with : indaced Bap-netabolizing enzymes 5 fetal isrue 2-3 fold.
Densolalpyrent Dati ie . carcinecer and anvirental cont ans that 4
found in coal tar, nimeral oil, car exhaust, tohacen seoxe. à kat foode, ete.
à In vitro station shoun that netabolie activation of Bar is required for
ite intarartin with proteine and nuclele acide (2,m. Farller studian uneh
rat liver preparations : and harater liver micron (6,7) shoved that bar
le meta elised mainly 8 phenolie and dihydrodihydroxy tainl derivatives, and
S quinomes which are ensymatie or air owidation peoducte of unatable phenolie
netabolitas is'o) as vell as acme unidentifiod nore polar netabolites, The
teta elies of Bat has generally been neamured b the production of 3-hydrowy-
Bar (3-0H-RaP) vhich ie after & of the major metaho: tes in vitro 31. 3-0H-
DaP ie tosie to cultured calle (9). hut it above very 11etle interaction vi th
DER in vitro (6) and has not been shown to be carcinocenic. Cu the other hand,
K-regton spowides of relat polycyelie aronatic hylrocartons TERH

to cell-

1291