. r6
996
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richurd L. Nacye, MD, and Woodrow S. may vary in incidonce and Somerset Counties of central categorics lor pneumoconiosls were anined anthracite roal.
Findings Dellinger, MS rank, low-volatile coal In Cambrin and l'ean- rykanla. Nonc of the men hnd ever ducted between Sursy ron. aust and 19-is ly the Pennsylvanin End Mineral Deportmeat of Miner Indurtries rhuwed an - verage coal dunt werk- exposure por ing shift of 11,10U,00 enk font of uir fur paritiles per biturings work- free The silica runtent of cral d Jut le low le all arenn of . neklom belng greater Fenneyha than $.. However, the mine durt conerstra t: in of free niliea In greater for sonie U derground wurkets Puch as hof 3 erntriluhu- le Jters and cledrie Inomcive 4 paracicaticicial a à who drill into Allua-bearisy tuinerruluitin and n-k or encoontir pulverin 4 othr di a- preesses. The i7 cascs srirrted rand, These srparate di-rove prireses 11. rough 14, tu keatd R search of ditering autury tika ly renitaibg. t! huthera, whn rinited rachof ruven disability." h is the pirpose E -neral huspital and real etery AU- evahate their L -ay protorul that lavohed a influencen na the man rueritgen- 4 Jrr than a Frara of Hgr win of parumorminsinsis, 1 twerh 0961 t aul I:his, The Ps determine if paru- fu: casen atarted atch with the with dinalility esista in girts pathir some workers withent auricterl descriptiunsof thy lungn. in hun Tih a ete was any mention of $ sttre abnormalities pi.ment, parenchymal noduls . thina Patients Studied and Methods rl or any hlatory of mining. the ti. nt's clinical chart was pn. ean.ited. fruni Penroharia and Werl data were estr.ce: A ginia, Vir- a * a as inrlukul in the Thir:y-one hal ulwaye mined nf rtudy 3 dun unly Trt-bo. * urvagations espurar cre 1 of smthnestern sprein- minen Larl : l'ennshania ur in Tug irmud ly a he juheilde nerly northtn E.. Vir,:it.ia Thr 1: "aail hhl rritive ether 46 hal alwayr mine d highrr. in hrbylame tin tinin: teatin uns anhtained Ilrnun. à No 2 Pr -mor $ E a A Dell d 2:3 PUBLICATIONS 027050
Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one pationt to another. bituminous coal, roentgenographic found to correlate well measurements of a the volume of nodules. and (2) the silica (silicon dioxide)and macules and nodules. recognition of cmphysema and which appcar to be most closcly correlated miners no with emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspinea in addition with silica and collagen,
process but a
In a study of 77 miners of with quantitative. postmoriem anatoinic pulmonory dust macules and collagen content of dust Unfertunately. there was poor roentgenepyaphic chronic cor pulnonalc, the tnudisorciers with dyspnca. A muniber of eru, lo dust macules
roentgenographic évidence of pncumoconiosis had trom 10; to 4G% of Appalachian chitis and hronchiolitis; coal workers have rorntgeno lur, graphie evidence of pncu- meconionia, hut con relatiuns belween orunionally such roentgenugraphie abnormalitics, early stages." Theru dificulties Ldunj is not R single disense but a composite of inultiple disorders, cach of which nay vary in inridehre gruphic aren, exmt posure, and opparcnt individual sus- ceptibility." These nultiple dix Farm d hyann no nf Eniner.ity (ulhge 4 à 4 4 It. ray Krperm 1 - ! M. : 11. 3 4 2 Crstet. Fler hy. a Bou te Sarys wwr April 10, 1972 . vol 220,
panlolular, and emphysema: und (J) prob of the current suly tn prores Another aim is to moconiusis
symptoms, and been dimieult ably arise workers' and
physiral findinge luve Appear to make to make, erpecinlly in tions to from the faet that roal individoal pheumeoniosis ("black ographie features severity, dupendent upon gro enigenographic
occupational ex
onler indude(1)the prinary ent dust Fatiruts,-The patients Wrre in un- ar - informatinh Hahy Sledical C nivr Fanchunis Stale low-rank high-wkatib caal in rountirs er unel le
maculu () silivuris (a) ehrunie hhan- dergrvund ininers of hituminous cnal li and uther muerning nri;
10346287
