LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday March 20, 1977
ALOOKATTESTS
To judge by the torrent of protést - a DA has received, a sizable por- tion of the. calorie-counting puclic Elusivé 25 a logic a - law may agrees. Long accustomed to a cross seem.to the: general public, medical firg: A criticism from industry pur researchers say: that the animal a consumer activists, the FDA has been périments upon-which such regilato- bésteged by citizen demands liber- decisions are baséd do have a sen ate saccharin. And moves arerafcot 5 sibles nationale- par that. they do Cangress a amend the. Food and bave adirect-bearing. on risk 8 bu-. Drug Act me is i f mans - There'sbeen a remendous .cutery STIR true, researt acknowiedge; 14 from all:aver the country," i EDA thaftherats at the:center of this fur- EFT spokesman- la Washington said: a a consumed each day the saccharin Times s lence Weter ranges from anguish to anger: We've. 1 - of reughly 1,000 eans of "never been this busy." a W equiralent soit drinic But they-con- S ban lowecalorte ces it make a a popula "The FDA: for-its part; says it was it misleading-if not dishonest food additive on he strength of what 'only doing what the- law required. sidér to suggest as the calorie counell bas; happens when hundred rats and. a the law-specifically the Dela- that f makes the resear E offsprings eat additive in : clause inserted. in the, disparity H . ney Congress tirelevant 6 humans. - hue doses? ped and Drug Act in 1958 says that:1 Peaple who drink one can a The Calorte Control Council, Inc. A "po-ficed) additive shall be deemed a saccharia soft oniy drink run a not The trade dayat Allanta thinks argani- tobe safe E it is found after tests: - comparably lower risk of cancer. But B € ai 213 million peopie, comes trom manufacturers a. dietary tion of the food additives:to. the collective population hazard could still add. for full- - cancer upto several thousand cases of blac of dollars in thelast few days - Thé ciause doesnct allaw € bal- dercancer a : - C uve Moreover, scientists note, rat : led the FD. to ha inistration for its decision 6 ban evidence R cancer in hum saccharin, - the oniy nonnutritive sweetenér currently cn the market. Even the 5 A is willing 6 admit thère's it basic difference between d. rats and human t" cne a ad in the. IT-A Street Journal-observed. S,II- L another : mpie of the arbitrar mtire of big E remment 1
The.Ban.on Saccharin:
8
satim. whose $ 0,000 annual budgatia which are appropriate forthe evaiua- food and drink bas spent thousands taduce safethat B mem or animal > 1 age newspaper ads acoss the coun- 4 anaing of de md becefit. Nar does it berating th: Food and Drug Ad- 1: rédiire- the: ban to ce: based ca
-
7035437
0087432
TIMN
