LOS ANGELES TI:ES Los Angeles, Californio October 20, 1954 m been proved. lale University
harrl uudn the premise that hination n a partirular type nenection hetw een riea in each of : Laree categories reti smokingand disease ha: has alrcady produced a safe Might Take Six Monthe one it is so all can be made Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. If not, the rerearch who was in charge of the most Dr. Carence Cook Litte, compiete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad- date, said tbat "some AFS sue visnry bnard and scient'fic di should wait for more defini rector o: the Toharro Indus- ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves wonld non has said just what the de produre some of "the defni finitive evidence weud be." uve eviderre" tn we:ch Dr He sand he "took issue" with Hammond referred. In nas alk 1n the Ameriran "We wiil tarkle simultan system was more important, line of the industrv's research migh: prove surcessful in six do not have todav 1he months, arith itck, he said menta! evidence that TE - prr-
cigarette If 50, seientific re- search should prove which should find one, "since ple like to smoke cigarettes. try Research (ommittee, de seribed the outlines nf stud- Tackle Unknawns
Expert Calls Safe Cigareffes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming
for
atatistician
-oad
tive evidence before develop-
NEW YORK. Ort, 19 (ITP) this viewnoint.
The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. De eously manv of the unknowns arette smoking with b ot h Hammond said the relation- in this feld of tobacen use in lung cancer and heart dis. ship nf rigarette smoking to relation to human health, he ease is "ourrw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitive once about developing "a safe health, than the relationship findings in ue area where cigarette a a leading statisti- to lung cancer. à program to murh suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find E. safe cigarette" from heen done. The program nf meeting of the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recognizes tha: 5 e tific advisory board of the There are various types of garding the cause and cfers Tobacco Industry Research Inhacen, there are varings relationshin hetween rrs Frin- Committes announced some of types of fiters, and there are mental factors, includ n - 11- details nf Stk scientific re varinus terhn'ques n! euring The most important srarrh program a hich is tobaren, he Raid, and it may et up Was a dirret xudy proct n
Cancer
experi
Society today, At the same time the scien-
Outlines Described
mit scientific eonclasions 17 smnkire and lune cancer lung cancer rase: a 10 medical centers in Die : n T ed States and Canada,
he thar some fortunors rom- current LOS ANGELES EXAWINER los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
It will Inchude numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokers, se well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. # apecifio research grants, financed the arill be announced later.
HEALTH STUDY NO
TOBACCO NEW YORK, Oct. IS- $ < broad stx point study seek Ing knowledge whether eigarets or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards was announced today. It is the first announcement of big research proxram headed by the sclentifie ad. visory board of the Tobacco In. dustry Researeh Committee
b TIRC,
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
