page 43
INQUIRER Philadelphia, Pa. March 27, 1964
INQUIRER Philadelphia, Pa. March 26, 1964
2 Cancer Types Rare Nuns, Study Shows PALM BEACH SHORES, € March 26.-An extensive Duns has shed light on some stubborn problems of medical research, it was reported LIVE 6 YEARS LONGER A survey, conducted with that the average age of death "generous collaboration" of : 77.5 years, about six years authorities, has enlisted: the cooperation of more than en in general. 116,000 auns la R religious Dr. Nix said the nuns "get Some preliminary results numbers as other women, but based on pilot studies and a por- they seem to get them 10 years tion of the main survey in £96T later than the average woman." -were revealed here at : There was a strikingly low sixth annual American Cancer incidence of cervical cancer, Society Seience Writers Semi- which Dr. Nix attributed s
Higher Death Rate
In
Males Is
By GARY BROOTEN Of The Inquirer Staff
Among
survey of causes of death Thursday. the chureb communities.
Attributed to
among America's Roman Catholic A most striking finding: higher than for American wom- heart attacks in about the same
Heavy By GARY Of The Inquirer PALM BEACH
Smoking BROOTEN of all deaths for that ase group March 25.-A SHORES. Fla.. But by comparing the 69,000 ex- statistician said Wednesday that cess smokers' deaths with the much of the long accepted dif- 153.700 excess death. among all ference in death rates between men, the statisticians came to sexes may be attributable to the conclusion that H.8 percent differences in eigaret smoking. of these excess dcaths among not fundamental sex differences. males could be blamed on L. Levin, evidence now indi- Previuusly, tb e differences cates that cigarets can be (which are usually expressed blamed for "a of minimum" 100.000 excess as a longer life expectancy for d e aths in women) had America every year. been attributed Excess deaths can be loosely to biological and other defined loosely as early deaths. In differences between men and smoking studies, they are calcu- women. lated by "It is important to remember comparing deaths that other factors are among smokers at each at work, level with deaths age Dr. Levin said. expected from general life expectancy tables. He said lae tact thal the Dr. Levin. chiel of epidemi- su - 9 n General's Advisory ology at the Roswell Park Committee Memorial report on smokin, Institute in Butfalo, did not a N. Y., made his give figure for tota: remarks at the excess deaths due to sixth annual American Cancer amokine Science "underscores the magnitude et Society Writers' Semi this public health problem." par here. Levio He Dr. reported on the offered figures indicatin first 300 patients whn had gone that nearly 45 percent through the institute's Ameri of the can Cancer higher male death rate can be Society-3ponsored rescarch attributed to smoking. project on smokers The reasoning runs like this: withdrawal clinics, but gave ou In the statistics on how had 25-to-64-year age group. many quit smoking 155,700 more men than women He said preliminary results died in Amertea in a given indicate that an antismoking typical year (1960), compound, Lobeline, h elp In the same year, there were smokers quit, but only while 69.800 excess deaths among male they are laking it. smokers. These men presum- ably would not have year had they not been smokers. The excess deaths among smokers constituted 20 percent
Staff leading health
! significant fact in itself.
Furthermore. said Dr. Morton smokinz.
nar. DUTY TO HUMANITY A is an unusust type of en, activity for the aans, - said Dr. James T. Nix, of New so-called Orleans, director R the study. that et can be treated effective- "But they cooperated because ly. they- a the knowledge is à Among the portant, and that # € their duty to all their sisters and to all humanity," The survey's primary target a fairly high incidence of breast ls to pin down some of the i cancer. lationships of health to abstinence from alcobol or larger series smoking and other environmen- er statistical value and have tal facions. One of the striking findings a the pilot study was that squa- endar year 1964," Dr. Nix mous cell lung cancer-the type As the chiefly caused b smoking. are being processed in the big which makes up the great computers of the Tulane Univer- majority of all lung cancer sity Biomedical cases today-oceurs only rarely ter. They promise valuable in- among the nuns, Dr. Nix added the that liglous communities' no-smoking rules seem a likely reason for a strikingly low incidence of bleeding or perforating peptic ulcers. Preliminary resalts from the main study were based 8 575 the of 1116 deaths reported in the communities last year.
celibacy and good hygiene. Can- cer of the cervix is a common disease among American wom- # although can now be detected early enough with the smear" test "Pap so nuns, Dr. Nix found only one case-in a 93-year-old sister. On the other hand, there was celibacy, "The nuns realized that a would be of great- already started collection of nun of death information for the cal- said. new data pour in, they Computing Cen- formation on the influence of E babits of living on health.
that died heavy
1005151230
