DAILAS MORNING NEWS
Dallas, Texas
April 14, 1954

Tobacco Firms
New Cancer
NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing
industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers.
picture of the relationship of
committee issued
co causes lung cancer.

Ask
Studies
growers and tobacco
tional" statements linkdng smoking Among those quoted by the com-
and Jung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer
United States Gov-
ernment, which said F a 1953 i
cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of lung cancer
for exhaustive research to estab- had not been established. Several
lish the basic cause of the disease. of the institute's scientists also
Others quoted were the Damon
A booklet con- Runyon Fund, which called for
taining previously published state- more research, and Chicago à
ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgeon Dr. Max Cutler, who
itiès doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons
by olher cancer experts that tobac- develop lung cancer partly because may
of smoking but that to accept 6
The earliest, whitten in 1923, sald conclusion of a direct
there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientific relationahip and
none that would produce turnors. hazardous."
The most recent, dated last March "It smoke is the lungs were
16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of
be done before causes of lung can- have had it long ago, cancer, tbe all
cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report Little,
The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratory, Bar Har-
S January to combat mounting bor, Maihe.
charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the
up of neariy every major cigarette University of Texas School of Medi-
manufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Inaur

alded

Inatitute of the

The tobacco industry research were cited.

we'd a

can A established

director of the Roscoe B, Jackson
ance Company and British author-
itles, Neariy all those quoted
agreed that no conclusions çould be
reached until an absolute cause for
lung cancer has been established
The report sen described by an
industry spokesman as an #
terim" statement,
nouncement
pending ane
of the choice of a
prominent scientist to supervise
basic cancer research de be f-
nanced by the industry. That scien-
tist will decide how the industry's
cancer-rescarch money is to be
spent, No date has been set tor his
selection.
At the last count, the committee
said; there were more than 850
cancer research grants 5 the
United States
alone, "any one of
which might produce evidence to
unlock the secrets of lung cancer,

ITO
138765