Elu/re

AT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Ne ferk Timer Servier

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars -
made cigarettes last year, ringing became an issue even in recent pack (9875) compared with 22

TAIPEI The Marlboro cow- up sales of 611S million. la "9861 trade talks between the United New Tawan dollari (79 cents)for
boy in his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Siaics and Taiwan. Wang Chicn- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghng from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly 18 shieng Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis
town. His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs. regisiered * ing in Japan are more liberal Com-
guitar-playing. jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted pive out golo free cigarettes and gifts, an aggressive campaign Television
This frenetic, fast-growing na cigarette exports last yenr, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawod in the United States in 1971.
tioe of nearly 20 million people ly because both Taiwan and Japan school students - 12, i3 years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-suandiog restrictions, are DOW smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry label that,
year and for the first time, E According to the Brown & Wil- rette companics promote cigareties toughly translated, says, "For the
mubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? It's O.K. to have them sake of health don't smoke too
made . America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" warning much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy $16 billion trade surplus with thao the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in si uomy in new sales the United States. But those people mandated in the United States.
Wacturers have essentially intro- In. Japan, which has - population are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe companies say Amencan

and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 1 strong protest.

panies can advertise on TY after

OBI this city, next to posters of t peroent.
b of Winston cigarettes.

AouL. amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

for most of the growth in American be said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-

of 120 million and where people

duced cigarette advertising to the
tbe American companics of entic-
ing teen-agers 0) take dn moking.
- charge the American companics
operation that had monopolized percent by 1992.
the cigarette market bad not adver-
tised, altbough = does now,
The government agreed to allow
.prossure from Washington In the alcohol.
year since stiff restrictions on for.
$ cigarettes were dropped.
have soared, generating much-
sfacturers 11 - time when sales in
the Uailod States art down
and tbe number of anti-imoking
laws is way 'dn

'umu . human being, you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan

ialand, and that has created furor smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year. that.
Oovernment officials bave accused imports have more than tripled F

not 01 much beczuse of the adver-
tising As because they are of better
quality and taste better American
with the way une dgarettes and made of blended to-
and bacco and have less tar than Tai-

the past year. The market share 8 American cigarette manufactur-
in
American cigarettes increased 6 E vigorously deny there any-
more than percent last year, thing wtong
they
from 3 percent in 1986, aod the promoting their products say
Department of Agriculture pro - thry have no plans to change their wancse cigarettos,
They are not lowed to advertix
television newspapert Nor
Taiwan officials say tbey resent loe
Of la
American pressure to open their have they pusbed todo 10, they say.
markets 10 producta that éndanger They can advertise only through
6 small stores where cigarettes are
sold, RE well as
sales "This really burts our feeling,
through promo
said Jaw Shau-kong a
tions. Cigarette manulacturére may
rines, of whosc droulation acl-
cach
export to Taiwan? Younger
dom excoods 200,000.
and femaics are
- lot
Before last
foreign ciga-
umoking
year,
poopk
young attractive
oent of tbe market. Taiwan im-
Fro-mak-6! girla
immoral.
A rerult, imported cigaretie cost

10

which ate not

botly deny.

The soversmeci-adminisiered dicts that it could grow to SI to 20 sales pitch.

bleoded.

others into the business oaly under people's health. like cigarettes and posiers hung near cigaretie racks of
a American cigarettes in Taiwan IL. tbe United Sustes docs legisiator. not en- also place 120 ads - year in mags-

peadod growth for American man- courage its people to amoke, why

way

causc of American ada. They hire rettes accountod for leas than per-
wearing short skirts 6. give "P cig- posed strict quotas on foreip
and then it becomos a habit. It's cigarettes and imposed stift tariffs.

According to the U.S. Depart- arettes free in nightclubs k's a digarettes, banned imports at the
moet of Agriculture, people in Tai- difficult for young boys to resist, 70,000 retail outlets licenaed to sell

0ZVLSOOOSZ

-
-