May 16 "96 8:44
P.11
Tribune Chicago
MAY 16 1996
Philip Morris, UST offer plan to curb teen use of tobacco Proposal would prohibit FDA regulation, ban 'loosies' and vending machine salès
By Barbara Sullivaa TRIBUNE STAFF Warss Philip Morris Cos. and UST Inc two jo the largest tobacco counpanies. went on the ollen- sive Wednesday, proposing sweeping legislation to curb teen tobacco use. The proposals, which would include a ban on vending machine and single-cigarette sales and impose curbs on advertising. go further than restrictions sought by the Food and Drug Administration, the companies said. The quid pro quo, however, is that the FDA be prohibited from any regulation of tobacco prod- ucts. "it there's FDA involvement. the deal is not on the table, said Ellen Merio. Philip Morris USA senior vice president of corvorate affairs. are not meant as a compromise, and restricting tobacco usage. this is a solution. beneficial
3/1
au Maar
9 photo Steve Pamish. a Philip Morris Cos. senior vice president. at a is the biggest which have not yet received would include a $250 million however. sa w the tobacco pro- blatant smoke screen to keep "They reajtze that the FDA is most serious about protecting 19 the tobacco industry). and they Ssz CIGANETTTS. PACE 2
a 741 U4
Merlo also said the proposals news conference Wednesday. or Orst step toward rapproche- pany and UST inent. with the government's maker of snuff and chewing mounting push toward regulating tobacco. The two companies "This goes way beyond a com- support from other tobacca promise." Merlo said. "We think compantes, said their proposal Merlo said further that the industry fund spent over a five- proposals are so comprehensive year period to help implement that unilateral action by Philip the legislation. Morris- and UST would not be Some anti-amoking advocates, "We couldn't inplement these posals as nothing more than a actions on our own. without leg- islation, she said. "tr only one the FDA out of the picture. or two companies participated. there would be no impact." Philip Morris. maker of Marl: kids from the blandishments (of boro Cixarettes aniong others. the world s biggest tobacco com-
