BOULDER DATLY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

Area.stores

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For the Delly Camera
nors.
kids.
kar

referring to the Increased enforce-
Autuad for selling tobacco to ml
tried to Anq. the cigarelles. The

mont.

Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky enoueb.to
nesses this week during a crack- get'caught & suec summons-
down on selling cigarettes 01 mi- to appoar UI court. The- maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve horis a 00ZS fine.
of. the American Cancer Soclety's The Suna involved two tcams.
Orcat American Smokeout, was in- Each included u uniformed omcer.
tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain clothes outcer and two
legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School girts, Who
Police targeted gas stations, -005 suis parenis signed a waiver al-
vënience, drug, grocery and dis. lowing them to Take partinthc.op-
"Taw has never been enforced, said The juvenlles woro told not to
Jopinos Policc Officer Mary Man plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
We're letting the stores know had to show identification.

count "saums mun recently the eratlon.
this is going to happen," ohc sald,

the cigarettes. and, if asked. they
(Sce DOULDER Page 3C)

Boulder police sting stores
for cigarette sales to minors
At the Conoco atation, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry
28uh Sl, one of the giris asked when she was isalieg R Gum,
the cashler for a pack of Mart mons oys caid ohg was a stur
boro Lights. Officer Rob Hauke- dent and couldn' afford trie
ness, In plain clothes, poojs In court COSts. Haukeness poul "01
The-hahind her to witnese thç 0108y00 her, saying she ninos
A placard near the cash regis. the Distriet Attorney to do com
ter read, p.I. ID my own mother. munity ecrvice Inatrad of paying A
clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clorka, not thc store own:
cation. Thc buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the.
she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it to Lisund
cd at the license, set it down on stores or clerks, she said. "Al-:
the counter. and sold har the though, when you scc clerks
Afler they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted -91
stepped dn and identified him sloros and clerks Ht but four
eelf 03 0 police officer, Manka recelved summonses.
came In and wrote the clerk a This wock'a
marim I see them ask for an year. Tha first sting. conducted
E I think they're going to 2 in September, targeted 16 stores
Cuse the cale," Haukeness sald. und ST clerks received Rum:

(From Page 1C)

The clerk at Colony Market,

transaction.

Aiqngaad work out a dealwith-

No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ane,
driver's licensé, which showed court costs.

cigarettes.
summons.

ing, you inight think otherwise RRAIS -
was the:
operation
secund tobacco sale stine this:

"But they never do."

monses.

094990FF0G