Vol. 285 No. 23
EDITORIALS
1317
The New England Journal of Medicine Official Organ of The Massachusetts Medical Society Founded in 1812 as the NEvr EXGLAND JOURNAL or MEDICINE AXD SURGERY and continued in 1828 a Vol. et the Bostox MEDICAL AND Suacical JOURNAL PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE COMMITTEE 03 PUBLICATIONS or THE MASSACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY Claude E Welch, M.D., Chainaan Joseph Garland, MD. EDITOR EMERITUS Franz J. ingelfinger, M.D., EDITOR ASSOCIATE EDITORS George S. Richardson, M.D., Book Reviews O'Leary, ASSISTANT EDITORIAL BOARD
ACTION ON ASBESTOS ASBESTOS workers are unintentional victims of industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary fibrosis, pleural calcification, mesothellomas and lung cancer. Asbestos exposure is now widespread, involving not only air but also wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex- posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or ferruginous bodies may be, there is no doubt that electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers ease in the general population at this time, the presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing. Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by most chemical and physical means and can float freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods. Asbestos diseases have a long latent sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must the now, on basis of "reasonable ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition of dose-response relations These thoughts are reinforced by the work of
drinking water,
Alexander Marble, MD, Samucl Proger, M.D.
Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos.3 Al- Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-
20 period, probabili-
Jane F. Desforges, M.D. Jan Koch-Weser, M.D. Robert Robert E, Johnson, M.D. Norman a Levinsky, M.D. Francis D. Moore, M.D. Charies A. Sanders, M.D. Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D. Ronald A. Arky, MD. Dana L. Farnsworth, M.D.
Ronald A. Malt, M.D. EDITOR
Arnold L. Smith, M.D, years or more. We therefore believe that more
be made
John W. Litdefield, M.D, Murphy and associates in this issue of the Journal Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, 6 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in Louis Weinstein, M.D, new ship construction include better than John R. David, M.D. exposure data and Indicate a high incidence of as- Edward A, Gaensier, M.D. pestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-
Howard Bleich, M.D.
usual
Isadore N. Rosenberg, MD. Milton C. Paige, 4 BUSINESS MANAGER
tions. A second study of Murphy et al.' reports two cases of pleural disease (one mesothelloma) in workers who sanded asbestos foor tiles. Since the
AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au- not should consult "Information for Authors." This material thors simulated the working conditions and found may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour- concentrations of 1.3 fbers per milliliter of room nal, or it may be obcained from the /ouraal office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of currently space, and all material, including figures, should be submit- used threshold limit values. A fiber per milliliter of CASE REPORTS, usually published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 10 fbers every gence" section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled
manuscript, including references, should be typed double reference to articles reporting closely related cases. A very fbers remains in the short case report or : description of technie submitted as a "BRICY RECORDING" should de limited to 500 words, MATERLAL prinsed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period. cine is covered by copyright The Jourwal does not hold itself responsible for statements made by any contributor. NOTICES should be received not later than noon on Mon- day, 24 days before date of publication. cies published. Requests should be sent to the author. imply endorsement by the Journal, Arbor, Michigan 48106. chusetts 02115.
ted in duplicate.
room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per an alarming number will still accumulate over a 10- A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation- al Academy of Sciences panel has called for control of asbestos emissions at the source and for protec- The report also calls for further research on the fibers; such data are urgently needed "if a
these lung,
.
figures suggest that
REPRINTS: The fournat does not stock reprints of the arti- tion of those who are exposed in their occupations. ALTHOCGH all advertising material accepted k expected to biologic effects and the physica! characteristics of SUBSCRIFTION PRICES (worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates are in U.S. fundsonly. confidence." Although we endorse these recommen- MICROFILM volumes available to regular subscribers dations. we want to underline the urgent need for through University Microfilms, 315 N. First Street, Ann technical controls based on existing knowledge. COMMUNICATIONS shouid be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as- land journal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects
conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance does not asbestos
on cells and tissues arc important and must be con-
