LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday March 20, 1977
- ALOOK a d a TEST
. a
. -To judge 49 thetorrent Ai protésts a the SERTG received, . sizable por- : of the. calorie-coumting public : agrees. Long accustomed to a cross - firg A, criticism from industry 'and consumer activists, the FDA has been: citizen demands to liber- ate saccharin. And moves arerafoot is Cangresr to" amend. the Food. ppu Drug Actn hnp.. - 4 1 1 here's been P tremendous.cutcry from all: aver the country, . # EDA spokesman l Washington said:: An ranges from anguish a to anger. We've. "never been this busy. :The FDA: for-its part: says l was 'only doing what the. -law required. the law-specifically the Dela-4 nay clause Congress inserted. in the Food and Drug Act in 1958 says that: "po-ficod) additive shail be deemed to.e safe a it la found after Ens tion of the safetyaa food additives; to Thé clause does.not allaw I bar- evidence R cancer a humant R
The: Ban.on L Saccharin:
. law aAsnp 2s the logi 9 may : seem 6. the géneral l:puliic, medical researchers say. that the animal A a périments upon-which such regulato- baséd de have a a rydeciiions are sen- sbber rationale-and that they 4 have adirect.beering on risk 8. hu-. imans. 5 a - 22 n STI true, researchers acknowiedge; at thap.the rats 'at the center of this fur- A 8 consumed eachr day the saccharin - equivalent A.1 reughly"..C0 cans R, à lowicalorie soit drinic But they con- 4 sidèr it misieading-i not dishonest J as the calorie counc!l bas,. that suggest J dirparity makes the trrelevant 8. humans. : research - - PPepple who drink oniy one can a dny: A a saccharin 'soit drink a a - lcomparably lower risk of cancer. But ai 213 million people, la the é collective population hazard could mms .add. upto several thousand cases af blad- dercancer: a Ano ynr Epra scientists - Moreover, nts # led the note, FDA. rat 9 a #
: - -
tior bésteged by.
e a l ROBEFT GILLE Times S lence wrrte ADees it maice ie nse to ban a popuiar food additive on he strength of what. and. happens when hundred rats E oifsprings eat a additive The Calorie Contral Council, Inc, R. Allatt thinks not The trade argani- comes I manufacturers '8 dietary a ofdollars ls thellast few days for E-m - inisuration for its decision 8 ban saccharin. a Cthe only .nonnutrtivvr sweetener curre ntly cn the market. 7. Paven the E ET willing 6 admit 1 thère 's a basic difference between d rats and human L . cne such ad in the. TPA Street Journal: observed. "Il's. just anocher ex mple cf the arbitrary matire of big guremment" anr
l
tb
in a
. -
buge doses?
cation, whose $ 0,000 annual budget.d which are appropriate forthe evaiua- food # drink, .bas spent thousands sudcue cancer E # or animal". page newspaper ads across the coun- 2 ananng or risieand benerit. Nar daes it berating i Food and Drug Ad- - réduire: the: ban tar: be: based. oa E
ve
a
7035237
0087432
TIMN
