l.

s4/n/s

JHT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
New York Timer Server

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars I

made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even in recent

($2.86) compared with 22
panies B advertise on TV after

TAIPEI The Marlboro cow. up sales of $119 million. ln 1986, trade talks between the United L Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for R
boy in his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Suaics und Taiwan Wang Chien. pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghng from his mouth, has come le eign cigarettes DOw hold nearly le shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis
sown. His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered R ing is Japan are more liberal. Com-
guitar-playing jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted give out srdd cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign Television
This frenetic, fast-growing DA- cigarette exporis last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawed in the United Suates in 1971.
tioe of nearly 20 million people ly because both Tawaan and Japan school students - 12, years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-suanding restrictions. are now smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry a label that,
rubstantia number of chem were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? Ic's O.K. to have cigareties them sake of healuh, don't smoke loo
made in America, not Taiwan. I American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- mucb" - a warning much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year, re- joy - $16 billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $i billion in new sales. the United States. But those people mandaied in the United Siates.
Wacturers have essentially intro ln Japan, which has - population' are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe companies say Amenian
duced cigarette advertising to the of 120 million and where people "uru . humann being, you woo't do cigarettes are selling wellin Taiwan

ADd mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.

oul this city, next to posters of a peroen..
er of Winston cigarettes.

"They lo amusemen places 1o 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

for most of the growrh in American R said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-

year and for the first time, E According to the Brown & Wil rette companies promote

roughly translated, says, "For the

ialand, and that has created . furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes D year. that.
Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled
ing teen-agers 9 unke dn mokinng, more than 10 percent last
operation that had monopolized percent by 1992.
.prescure from Washington. In the alcobol.
8 cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw Shau-kong a
ufacturens at - time when sales in and
the Unitod Suates are way down
laws is
way up.
According the U.S.
01

not s much because of the adver.
manufactur- tising as because they are of better
thing wrong with the wa) they ure cigarettee are made of blended to
bacco and have less tar than Tai-
products and ther say wancse cigarettes which are not

American
cigarette
year,
their

tbe American
boty deny.

uhe past year. The market share 25
from 3 percent S 1986, and thei promoting

companies of entic American cigarettes increased 6 E vigorously deny there in any- quality and Laste beiter. American

* charge the American companies
tised, altbough it does Dow.

Department of Agriculture pro ihry have no plans lo change
American pressure 9 open their have they pusbed sodo 1o, they say.

blended.

The goverumect-adminisstee dicts that it could grow to 15 8. 20 sales pitch.

They are not allowed to advertiae
5 small stores where cigarettes are
tions. Cigarette manulacturers may

the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials say tbey resent lo television or ln newapapers Nor
The government agreed to allow markets le producta that éndanger They can advertise only through
others into the busnees oaly under people's health. like cigarettes and posier hung near cigarette racks or
year since stiff restrictions oe for. "This really burts our feelings, sold, a well as through promo
. American cigarettes in Taiwan N.. ube United Suates docs legisiator. not en- also place 120 ade - year in #
have soared, generating much- courage its people lo amoke, why zines, cach o whoec droulation acl-
peadod prowth for American man- export 6e Taiwan? Younger people dom cxooods 200,000.
and tbe number of anti-smoking causc of American ada. They hire retuo accounted for lcas than 1
mbett ol Agriculture, people B Tal- difficult lor Sunok boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licensed to sell

females are smoking a lou be Befoce last year, forcign ciga-
young attractive 19-yoar-old girla oent of tbe market Taiwan
Suyvan short skirts o1 sive "e cit- posed strict quotas on
Depart- arettes free in nighiclube. k's 1 digarettes, banned import at E
and then it becomes A habit. Il's cigaretter and imposed stif tariffs.

g4
forcign

immonal."

2 reeult imported cigaretien coet

t/S000SZ
1/