WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRIBUNE D. 25,605 S. 49,326 WACO METROPOLITAN AREA MAR 9 i963
FC Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard-- Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission froni going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it dnes not sccm right or logical that onc medium of advertising be furbidden the producer w hile newspapors, magazines, billboards and c ounte cr displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expectod 6e review the FCC proposal and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires Junc 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC said it is proposirg to refuse licenses o) broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising because of evidence that smoking is injurioun 5 hcalth ànd the FCC has an obligation le protect the public intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals 0) do es they please 50 long as lhey don't harm another. Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if nof don't mention something, maybe de won't Congressman Paul Rogers, l-lorida Democret, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Con- merce Commiticc, said in reference le the proposed FCC rulc that the ngency had overstepped the bounds of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has any right to tell an advertiser what he could not say in his advertisements, Rogers said Congress will take a cluse Icok at the whole question of regulations on television and radio advortising content, not only as to the Federal Communications Commission but in regard to Federal Trade Comunission praclices as .The stakes involved extend beyond the business of broadcasting. They 08 to the heart of whe:her government burcaus should he allowed to go beyond
advertising.
Hazardous to Your Healt..
hurt you and will disappear.
well. 2
tho limits of due proccss and the law,
