HKB2228112 LASTA BAKBARA SAN14 -
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIECO . - : BA. 2 L 4 e 7 : a H VII 2 ILPARTMI 7 : : tin January 3, 1977 Dr. William H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Rescarch roundation 715 Muir Lands Vista Hay La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. rishman: and Salk.
4 - a : in A I h
a - 1A : MIOEA 2
We are lookina fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of Lhe La Jolia rescarch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzynes should fit in well with ongo ing activities noi only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establisnment of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmentaal prublems is partizularly ieely. It will be o! or.a potential importance for pulling tcgetter vork. by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, characteriztaion and doterrinaation of the sionificance of huraan oncodevelcpmennaal antigens such as alphafetoproteir and Carcinorsbryonic antigens. One of the goals of Lhe work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship of increased serum concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinoner exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model svsters clearly derion- strate tne 1 anirals pasouxs to hepatocarcinayens have elevated serum AFP concen- trations prior to developrant of malionant tumers. It is hoped that syster tic study of hunan scra frum difforect avurces will deterwinc if serum AFP concun- In addition, the role of env ironnental fac tors such as hormonal influences on the production of encodevelopmentaal gene pry-k. can be further explored in different sy: Lens. Such data iuplies Lhal (he prod;u tion of ohcocavelopmentaa gene product, by tunor cells is net a fixed property of a given tumor but is We look foncard to vorking vith ycu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundat fon in furthering research in the important subject of oncodeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatoc.rrcinoge exposure.
subject to enviroumeeta controls.
expression. Best regards, Stewart Sell, H.D. Professor SS/nb
