BOULDER DATLY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
a 1 A
Area stores
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For the Delly Camera nors. kids. kar
referring to the Increased enforce- penally Tur selling tobacco_to.a ml- tried to buy Uli cigarelles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky OFQ8nOuS nesses Chis week during a crack. getcaught were issued Lasummnn down on selling cigarettes to mi- to appoar 5 court. 1 The maximum The sting. conducted on the eve noris 00ZS. fine. of. the American Cancer Soclety's The eting involved two tcams. Great American Smokeout. was In- Each included u uniformed oocerr tended to educate clerks that it's il- a piain ciothes ouccer. and two legal to sell tobacco producte to Fairviow High School girts, Who Police targeted gas stations, con giris' parenis signed a waiver al- vênience, drug, grocery and dis. lowing Dhemlo takc partin thc.op "law has never beer enforced, said The juvenlles wero told not to Jopinog Police Olficer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "were letting the stores know had to show identification.
"coun stores. Until recently, the eratlon. thie ie going to happen, shc sald,
the cigarettes. and, if asked, they (Sce BOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores '
. :
for
sales
cigarette (From Page (J1
to minors The clerk at Colony Market.
At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began to cry, 28uh Sly one of the girls asked when she was ksleed sum- the cashier for a pack of Mart mons. oys cald a was a stur a boro Lights. Omcer Rob Hauke- dent and couldn't piore tre ness, In plain clothes, stood în court costs. Haukeness pou -01, -innhhhhhnd her to witnece tho vongole her, saying she could: A placard near the cash regis. the Distriet Attorney to do cam 2. ter read, P.. ID my own mother. munity ecrvice instcadoff paying No 'at No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, clerk asked tn see some identifi The clerka, not the store Thc buyer produced lier ert or manugers, have to pay the.. driver's license, which showed court costs. she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l du it to cd at the license, acl it down on stores or clerks, she said. punish. and sold her the though, when you see clerks Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Police targcted 15: stepped Jn and identified him otoros and cler ks alalbbut four eelf 0s a police officer. Manka recelved summonses. came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wock's I see them ask for an year. The first sting. conducted. E I think they're going to 2 in Scptember, targeted 16 stores fuse the calo," Haukeness sald. und SI clerks received Rum
transaction. cation. counter. the cigarettes. summons "When "Bul they never do."
prubably work out a deal-with-
à owT., "Al-:
ing, you might think otherwise. cry: operation was the. punaas tobacco sale stine this:
monses.
