AvE
PKv

vul 15 mn 13 pp.2721-2725

Carcinogenesls

rool

Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke
carcinogens aupueinq-1-(lppllad----1-oouuuesoa3ju(Aqpour-p and
benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of

< 3420

chemopreventive agents

Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin
Amencan Heaih Foundarien. Valhalla, NY 10595. USA

models examined 9 date (2). BaP is a protorype of the class
of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco
smoke (I). We have chosen the A/ mouse because previous

The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce
model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents agninst lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced
lung cancer In smokers. Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to
by 4-tmethylnitrospminoo. 1-0-pyridylll-bufaanoe (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined
and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated.
individually or in combination. Groups of Cemale A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg
were treated by either intragastrie gavage (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of
Intraperitoneal injection (l.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP,
and/or Bap for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diechylnitrosamine and7.12-dimethylbenzjaanntraacene (9,10).
either 6 or 61 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the AJ mouse ol evaluate the effects of
forestomach were counted. The "3 route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK
proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration. (4.11.12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse can be replicated
because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate
thelnjection site and associated mortality. A dose e-response (PEITC) le an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by
relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK uE both the A/J mouse and F344 ral (11.13)
mice killed 9 or 9 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single
treatment. The highest total doses ofNNK and BaP a total carcinogens This may nou x realistic with respect 01 tobacco
of24 jumol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The
have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important
Comparisons of NNK and BaP given individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (11.
when given by the i.g. route: l.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given eicher
were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP.
The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to
evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occury during
dose of 24 pmol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition. the model should be relatively rapid and
subdoses i.g. with sacrifice 6 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we exnmined tumor yields obtained
dosing. This regimen induced 10.524.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously (or
mouse. > combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61
ethylisothiocyynnat., given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a
and BaP, SEM found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC
tuioo formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP.
this study provlde a convenlent model for assessing the NNK was synthesized in the American Healhh Foundacion Organic Synchesis
efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. Rt purity was established by HPLC as >997 BaP (98% purity),
Our goal im this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were
could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirt containing s com oil, as previously
play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups ef 15 as sammarized in Table 1. At age 7 weeks. each mouse was
kers: 4-mmaliginirosamino..1-3-pynddb--b--uonn (NNK*) treated à inraperitoneal (ip.) injection or by intragastric gavage lig) with
and benzolalpyrene (BaP) (1) NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical in 0. mi cononseed pal. NNK and BaP were both
carcinogen with organospecificiity for the lung is all rodent dissolved in the 0. mi uned for treatment Injections and gavages were carried
*Abbrovintions: NNK. 4-(methy-nitros3mino) 1-(3-pyridyty- 1-butunene: individuat dose war one-cighth of the total. Equimolar doses of NNK and .
BaP, benzololpyrene: PELTC, phenethyl isethiocyanaie BITC, benzyl BaP were wsed le most of the combination groups, because the emounts of

whlch these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given

The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively

of NNK and BaP u! combination was established in the
that Bal was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK

Most previous studies in the A/ mouse have examined

We sought 2 develop a model which could be used to

5.92 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse S v 0.001) and completely
inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.

inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materiale and methods

BITC 586) purity) and PEITC (98% purity) were abtained from the Aldrich
Chemical Company (Milwaukee. wi). Cottonseed oll was purchased from
Female AJ mice. age 5 weeks. were obtoined from The Jackson Kaovuroge
(Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the
The design of the bioassay is illustrated Ba Figure 1. The mice were
out for 8 consecutive werks. The toral doses are given ss Tuble L Each
NNK and total carcinogenic polyayelic hydrocarbons in tohaceo smoke are

Sigma Chemical Co. (Si Louis. MO).

Introduction
8,

agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).

divided

isethiocyanaie, ip intraperitomeal, is. introgastric gavage.

o Oxford Unvenity Press

2721