True-Tal lne Questlons S the Chenistry and Psychophyslology of Odor end Flevor 1. T . Sone modern workers suggest that accurate meAsuremant of vlbratlonal frequeney (in the far intrared, for exenple) of nn unknown odorant will permit prediction of its quallty and intenslty. T No elenental substance, not even he lldes or ozone hes eny odor; Instead they react with the mucose forning new products which are smelled; but T Sone odorants have sterie or vihrationnl propert les which force the cone luslon that they are odor less whon they are not. I1. T Present evldence strongly suggests thot al fferent parts of the ol lactory receptor ares, Ikk the retina In the eye, are que ilty-spocific. T Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor T. No one yet has a firm clue as to the criticol relation between the molecule nnd the receptor which pernits en odor perception, - The greater the secretion rate of mucous or selive, the higher their pH, and both pli and tomperature influence the quallty of sensation in the 1I1. T The ideat Instrumental detector would respond to odors l the sane quantitative range as doon an anima or human subject. T Such an Ideat detector has not been developed.
sone elements possess taste.
surt face In order to be smelled.
chenicn! senses.
2
Ihman observors with head In fixed position cen by virtue of the two Indopondennt nostriis easliy discern stereo Sue 11 effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier hn odorant Is at the right or left hand, much as one uses his twe ears in locat ing the source of a sound. - For certaln musk- ikke compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger a hunon olfact ory response v. - Adaptation to one olfactory qunlity does not significant ly reduce sensitivity to any other dissiel lar quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all sinllor qual lities. T E By esploying a slmllarities nethod of conparing qualitles, one can now obtain ident Ity and degrees of difference without rocour se to tronle- vi. T Hunger lowers thresholds slightly to some food qua Ilties but not for 1 It is now possible to ident fyy the intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull simply by expert examination of the electrophysiologica record taken from appropriate odor or taste neurons. T Electrical stimulat lon of taste in wnn yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkalind" quality. T Direct electrical stlmulatlon of the olfactory senso han never yet beon successtully accompilshed. ViL. 1 Although total anosela is rare In humans and ageusla even rarer, there is evidence that In analogy to color vision deficiences, sone people are Insensit tive to (only certein) qualities whi le having normal sensitivity to others. T Toplcal anesthetics applled to the tongue show that different quelitles 1 Certaln endocrine dlsease entitles make It possible for sone people quite sensitively to "snell" such "odor less substances es sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to normal by manipulation of endocr Ine levels. 4 enenopausa wonon at the time of ovulation fInd certain odors extrenely disagreeable whlle at other rines In the menstrunl cycle these seme odors
sone words. others.
of taste disappear nt different rates.
they will judge quite pleasant,
D A
