STRICKMANFILTER WINS 2D CONTRACT Another Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs to Uselt By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pall Mall of Canada, "PIT the second-larg- est cigarette sompany in that country, contracted yesterday with the StrickmanNooundationn to pay a penny a pack royalty for use of the filter invented by Robert "T Strickman. The company, which le 30 per cent British-owned, but Canadian-managed, sells 12 bil- lion cigarettes a year, very few of them in the United States. The agreement was the second In two days with the founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Corppany of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company. with annual salcs of more tian 8! billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. Strickman, was surrendering its rights to the filter to the foundation. The university said tt had "made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering a highly con- troveisial end competitive com- mercial field. . Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financlal stake in the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to it last summer by Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set dn on Wednesday by the New Jersey chemist as a charitable institution 0). ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has received $200,000 in advance royalties. According to Robert > Katz, the unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts cauld eventually bring tn about $5 million a yearin royalties. Mr. Katz, A Jawyer who. ls secretary of Seagram's Distil- leries, said that Rothman's Pall nfall of Canada ted been test- ing the. Strickman Eltor since last August. Wilmat Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman's w said of the device: 0 "We are sntislied that nothing exists *or y which gives comparclle filtration without adverrely affecting the flavor of the cigarette. : takes out 'mcre padsns ele- ments withia tie cuniext of ac. ceptable flavor, we fcel that as clgarette company should trv .
New York Times March 1, 1968 Page 34
1
2
N Claims Are Disputed The claim that the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ing cigarette flavor has bcen a subject of controversy. Among the most outspoken critics of the filter has been!F Scnator Warren G. Magnuson or Washington, who has con- tended that its claims have been keetly exaggerated. EnoyL, many governmental and privale health reports byl experts have called cigarette tar and hicotine health hazards, Columbia University, in a re- port on the Shjckman filter made public on Wednesday, avoided making ahy conclu- So far no United Slates ciga- rette companies are beliaved o1 be close to a contract fox the filter. Experts say that dones- tic companies need not fèar competion in this country from the Canadien cigarettes because of a 15-cent import duty on each package. Pall Mall cigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana- dian concern.
sions.
rescarch.
d -
