LOS ANGPLES TIEES Los Angeles, Californio October 20, 1954 E been proved. lale L'niversity
hasei upon the premise that hination n' A particular type anection hetween riea in each nf "he three categories smoking and disesse ha hae alrcady produced 'a sale Might Take Six Months one 1 is. so all can be made Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. 1 not, the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Carrnce Cnok Litt. complete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad- date, said that "some say we visnrv bnard and seientific di. should wait for more defini rector o: the Toharro Indus. ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would nne hae said just what the de produre some nf "the defni finitive evidence wnudd be." live eviderce tn waich Dr * sadd he "took issue" with Hammond referred. In hie 1alk 1n the Ameriran "We wiil tackle system was more important, line of the
Calls Safe Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link is Overwhelming
cigarette os seientific re- search should prove which should find "since one, peo- ple like to smoke eigarettes. try Research Committee. de- seribed Ihe nutlines nf stud- Tackle Unknewns research industry's program "We seek definitive
Expert for
atatistician
tive evidence before develop-
NEW YORK Ort. 61 ALP) this iewnoint
The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eously many of the unknowns simultan arette smoking with b 0 - h Hammond said the relation- in this feld of tobacen nse in lung cancer and heirt dis. ship of rigare:te smoking to relation to human health, te ease is "overw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- once about developing "a safe health. than the relationship findings in an area where cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to much suggesaive work has cal scientist told the annual find à safe cigarette from been done. The program nf Tobacco Industry Research inhacen, there are varinus relationship hetween rrv rom. Committee announced some of types R. fiters, and there are mental factore, includ i a the details nt EU seicatife re various terhn'ques n curing The most
something should be done at from the standpoint of public
the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recognizes tha: we prove surcessful in six do not have today Ihe experi- months, with kuck," he said menta! evidence that wi'l per- ie toharen, he Raid, and in may aet waa important prncect
meeting cf the American migh: Cancer Society today. At the same time the scien- the advisory board of the srarch program 1e h
Outlines Deseribed are There various types ol he thar some fortuntrss com- up LOs ANGELES EXAMINER los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
mir scientific eonclzsions Pn. garding the raure And eFerr smokire and lune cancer a direr: scudy nf current lung cancer case: a 10 medical centers in :he : 'ni ed States and Canada.
It will Include numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokers, as well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. The apecirie research grants, financed Aq the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY NO TOBACCO NEW YORK. Oct. 19. - A broad sbe-point study seek Ing kmowledge whether eigarets or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards was announced today. It is the first announcement of a big research prokram headed Aq the selentifie ad. visory board R the Tobacco In dustry Researeh Committee
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
