H KU2223022
Life Sciences Vol. 15. pp. 1291-1300 Printed in the V-8.A.
Perganon Press
METAROLISM b BENZO(A) PYRTE BY KECROSOHT h RON TISBUES b PRECNANT AND FETAL HAMSTERE Irene Y. Wang, Ronald w Ra smunsen, and : Timothy Crnckert Cancer Research Institute, Untveraity of Californis, a Prancisco, and Depart- ment of Community and mnviran en) Medieine, Univereity of California, Irvine*. (Received in final form 26 August 1974) Sumarry Pretreatment ot hansters vith benzo (n)pyrene (BaP) vreatly increased the sl vitre netaboliam of 3 by lung alerononns fron prognant f atare, a J lewe effect on the metabolien of BaP by 1 miere- momoe. The produetion of various metabolites of BaP E lung miere- I wa increaned to different axtentas 3-hydrory-BaP (3-CH-BAP) was ene 2 the najor metabolitee E metabolic yielde ot : 4vE-Akopp4u1poxppesp (9,10-dio1) and 1,8-diol vere incrensed tore than thae of E 4,5-diel. In the I of 1iver microsomeo, only uhe yielde of 9,10-diol and 7,8-diol vere increased ovar the eontrel levels, The presence of eyclohexene oxide a the incubation € tures decreased the production of the diole. Basal-leval eneyme activities in placental, fetal A and fetal ak in microsones in metabolizine MP vere very low. Pretreatment of pregmant hanatere with : indaced BaP-netabolizing enzymes in fotal tierue : fold. Danse (alpyrene (DaP) le . carcinogen and environmental contaninant that in found In coal tar, nineral oll, car exhaust, tohacco snoke, moked foode, ete. (1). In vitro sratien shoved thae netabolie activation of € is required for ita intaraction vith proteine and nuclele acide (2,3). Carller studien with rat liver preparations :4,5) and hanater liver microsnme (6,7) shoved thae Bar le metaholized mainly 8 phenolie and dihydredihydrowy (diol) derivatives, and 9 quinomes * are enzynatie or air owidation peoducte R enstable phenolle metabolitau (4,5) : vell an some unidentified more polar metabolites, the metabelies ef Rat han generally been neamured h the production ef 3-hydroxy 2 (1-0--PPP which le often one of the major metalolites in vitro (3). 3-OH- DAP e tonie 8 euitured celle (9), hut it shove very 11etle interantin vi th DBA in vitro (6) 2 has not been shown 3 x carcinocenic. & the other hand, K-regton epowides ef related pelyeyelie aronatic hylrocarhons (PAn)bind to cell-
129!
