SYMPTOMS AND THE LNJWNNOAIAN3-OHDIW IN THE SICK BUILDING AWOHINAS A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.L.H. complaints associased with the "sick building syndrome Ar same time, themicro-environment (environmental
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT the
et al. (1987) investigared the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire The symptoms were more commoa .B buikd.
In a cross-sectional invesngarion 5 & building. office buildings built over the last R years with a validased were measured on a linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system abso provided cooling and characteristics S the breaching zone racher chan area direct relationship between the level of complaints k air samples) a characserized by measuring temperenure, quality parameten : not described. Skov et a (1987) à relacive humidiry, respirable suspended 'ompooudd car. amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 moder 1 bon dioride, noise level, lighting insensiry, relacive har towm halls and 1 older control buildings. A level of i midiry, and airflow. No relarionship a seen benween toms was related 8 . "Beecing" factor (carpets, upholseryy. the degree of symptoms and age. educarion. or duration and horizontal surfaces) aa the "macro-molecular I of employmen at the building or aime spent s dhe 1 nent" of dust. They also demoostrated . relationship berween hn on . daily basis. Staristically, complaincs were the number of houn spent photocopying and using carbonles significandly more frequent among smoking I Envi- hdoo paper and tbe level of complaints. Ocher srudies have ronmental characseristics associased 1 * increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Seellman et al. 1985) complairu levels in this group included decreased airfow and psychodynamic factor (Row'and et al. 1984) cootribute models, chere was an association herween respirable pu- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome by mea- pended particulases and the levels of boch mucous mcm- suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et brane and syssmmi complaints. Sanisfaction wish a F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. thermal environment a predicted by percepaion of dreft ferences .s the concentrations of environmental pollutants R nor deeart contribute to the degree of symptoms, berween rooms in a mechanically and a naturally veuelleted although regression models did suggest t complaines building. They studied the rooms with the 1 complaint were nor independent of chermal paramesers. . I I and used area samples. Skov et a (1987) did demon- insensiry wes also associated E complaints.. I strate a relationship berween symptoms and boch ares - mudies of * sick building syndrome I examine ples measuring dust and - "macro-molecular" traction. 1
humidification. irreppcctive of the
L
*be of the buildings. A
velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended par. 8 indoor air quality complaints.
riculases 7 dry-bulb semperanure. In regression
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
- exponure simultancously and include prycho .9 area H
L measures 9 idensify predictors of complaints in
Area samples is buildings may Dot be representacive of a exposures ls different points in single rooms. Physical characteristics soch a windows and partitions, computen,, and shetving may infuence air currents. Radian I may
indoor spaces. INTRODUCTION
Complaints sermed the i building syndrome" have lead oI uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, moet pol led to pumerous investigations .9 the last 15 year.. A are hutants resuh from point sources, 2 they will be diluted - . thought to occur primarity . newty constructed I I subject .n farther removed from the source. The micro 4 a and, at least in the pest, were thought to be due 8 vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Nevertheles.. a different exposure characteristics than the macro-environ # variety of causes have been identibed .s specifkc setting.. meat of a building. le addition. all applied occupational and inctuding inadequate semperature and relative bumidiry 8 environmental health rescarch that attempes oi relate dose to trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile orpanic compounds beakt effects sufier from the problem that dose is penerally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, enviroamental sobecco measured at several points in time E then extrapolated to 1 smoke, pesticides. a entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decades spent and contaminated air and boiler fumes, Bbers released * most heakh effects are measured as . - 1 of from duct linings. and offic machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variabiliry of sampling A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms krw change not merely trom et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to hour, uuhh a stratep must fail. (Robertson et al. 1985) B unable oi identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-qualiry parameten in the 4 wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (semper eavironment and set these characteristics in relacion o a ature). relative humidity. air velocity, formaldehyde. or poe- level of individual complaints at a given point in I This itive or nepative ions between several rooms . . building report presents resules of a crom-sectional investigation of . with patural and - building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using a set-administeredd. linear analog. where both wet of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom E I . Aminam Prolesorr of Medicin and ol Induscrial 3 Emvironmental Heahh Scences at the Univeruty of Peesburgh School of Medicine and Publc Heahh. P. Celepyy . Direcior. Environmental Heahh R Salery. Camepie-eellonn Univeruty, Pirtsburgh. PA.
(Kreiss and Hodpson 1984; Hodgson and Kreiss "9991 marily to mechanical ventilation. The same proup of author
results in greater than the difference ln average samples, and No investigations in 8 peer-reviewed literature I
