HK02223022

Life Sciences Vol. 15. pp. 1291-1300
Printed in the V-8.A.

Pergamon Press

METAROLISM or ERtntAlPEE : ktch . . FRON
TISSUES b PRECNANT Aven FETAL HAMSTERE
i T. Mang, Ronald w Rasmunsen, and T. Timothy Crocker*
Cancer Research Institute, Univarsity of California, Sun Prancisco, and Depart-
I of Community and mmirooneenall Medieine, Univereity of California, Irvine".
(Received in final form 26 August 1974)
i
Pretreatment of hansters vith benzo (n)pyrene (BaP) greatly increased
3 sl vitre metaboliam of E è lung alerononns i prognant f
atare, and P lewe effect 5 the metabolien of BaP by iiver miere-
I The produetion of various metaholites of € T lung miere-
sonos : inereaned to different axtentas 3-hydrory-BAP (3-CH-BAP)
! ene of the najor matabolites, a metabolic yielde ot :
dihytrodihydrosy-BaP (9,10-d1o1) and 1,0-diol vere incrensed nore
than thae or E 4,5-diol. In the ehee of 1iver mierosoman, only the
yielde of 9,10-diol and 7,0-diol vere incrensed ovar the eontrel
levels, The presence of eyclohexene oxide in the Ancubation €
tures decreased the production of the diole. Basal-leval eneyme
activities in placental, fetal 1iver, and fetal akin microsones in
metabolizing E vere very low. Pretreatment of pregmant hanatere
vith BAP indaced BaP-petabolizing enaymes in fetal tierue 2-3 fold.
Denso(a)prrene (DaP1 le . carcinegen and envirenmental contaninant that is
found In coal tar, mineral oll, a exhaust, tohacce snoke, moked foode, ete.
(1). In vitro sratien shoved thae netabolie activation of BaP le required tor
ite intaraction vith proteine and nuclele acide (2,3). Carller studien with
rat liver preperations :4,5) and hanater liver microsones (6,7) shoved thae Bar
le metahelized mainly 8 phenolie and dihydredihydrowy (diol) derivativee, and
9 quinones * are enzynatie or air owidatine peoducte R unstable phenollc
metabolitau (4,5) a vell an sone unidentified more polar metabolites, the
metabelies ef Rat han generally been nesmured hq the production of 3-hydronyy
BaP (3-OR-BAP) which le ofter one of the major metalolites in vitro (3). 3-OH
DAP ie tonie te euitured celle (9). but it shove very 11etle interaction vith
DBA in vitro (6) end has not been shown 3 x carcinogenic. 8 the other hand,
K-regton epowides ef related polycyelie aronatie hylrocartons (PAl)bind 8 cell-

1291