EXPERIMENTAL PARASITOLOGY 70, 111-113 (1990)
MINIREVIEW
Viruses of Protozoan Parasites JEAN L. PATTERSON
Division ofInfectious Diseases. Children's Hospital and Department ofMicrobiology and Molecular Generics, Harvard Medical School, Boston. Massachusetts 02115, U.S.A. PATTERSON, J. - 1990. Viruses of protozoan parasites Experimental Parasitology 70, The study of bacteriophages and viruses has pro- rus-like particles does not conciusively prove that a vided important leads .s our understanding of the con- virus has been discovered. It is also important to con- trol of gene expression, RNA processing, and transla- sider the question: How does one isolate a lytic agent tion. The eariy work with bacteriophages enormously from an infecting microorganism? Presumably, B the assisted in the development of modemn molecular bac- in vitro culturing of infectious organisms, those that teriology. Since they are by definition obligate para- survive are resistant to cocultivating lytic agebts. sites of the eucaryotic cell, viruses have been essential Therefore. one can only isolate noniytically infected or .s helping to elucidate eucaryotic gene regulation. persistently infected organisms. It appears that all vi- They must conform to all the prerequisites that allow ral systems of protozoan parasites, studied to date, for gene expression within a host and, not surprisingly, have accomplished just this. There have been several many of the models underlying present concepts of reports of the moiecular characterization of viruses .s eucaryotic gene regulation are based on experiments parasitic protozoa and these characterizations are crit- originally done with animal viruses. For example, ical in establishing the existence of a viral system. RNA splicing was first discovered is adenovirus (Ber- Wang and Wang (1986a) reported the presence of a get et al. 1977) and ironically much of our knowledge double-stranded (ds) RNA virus le Giardia lamblia. In of the function in translation of the mRNA cap struc. general, all of the work on the nature of RNA viruses ture is based on work with poliovirus, a virus which in protozoans has been derived from viral molecules does not have cap (sce Ehrenfeld 1982). Furthermore, isolated from the infected parasite. The double- studies with vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) bave stranded RNA virus in G. lamblia is no exception. An given interesting insights into mRNA ribonucleopro- associated nucleic acid found in the infected parasite tein complexes (Adam et al. 1986). The understanding appeared to be approximately 7 kb. Susceptibility of of some DNA virus's tissue tropism has delineated the ribonucleases in low a and insensitivity in high salt molecular basis of tissue specific suat expression, supported the hypothesis that it was double-stranded. such as the function of tissue specific transcription Subcellular fractionation indicated that the dsRNA factors and enhancers (Freund et al. 1987; Gloss et al. could be found associated with the nuclear fraction. 1987). The successful use of viruses as molecular tools Electron micrographs showed that the virus had an and models has been facilitated by their small genome estimated size of 33 nm. The RNA could be labeled size and small number of genes, as well as by the un- with "P-llaeeed pCp at the .E end with T4 RNA ligase usual abundance of viral transcripts and proteins in and used a a probe and therefore was not circular. infected cells. These considerations highlight the a There was a major protein band estimated at a molec- tential value of viruses for the study of parasitic or- ular weight of 66,000 Da. As S added advantage, the ganisms. Indeed. the lag .s our understanding of gene virus could be used to infect other strains of Giardia Early experiments in the quest for viruses of para- parasitic protozoan, Trichomonas vaginalis (Wang sites to a great extent depended on electron micro and Wang 1985). EM analysis of the RNA indicated a scopic examination (Molyneux 1974; Molyneux and linear double-stranded structure of 1.5 um in length, Heywood 1984; Croft and Molyneux 1979). Although with no apparent hairpins or loops. Later this double- this method is common, the end result is frequently stranded RNA was found to be between 5 and 6 kb and frustration. More importantly, the appearance of vi- associated with a virus (Wang and Wang 1986b). This
111-113. o 1990 Academie I Inc.
regulation of parasites may be due, in large part, to the (Wang and Wang 1986a).
lack of defined viral systems.
A double-stranded RNA was identified in another
111
0014-4894/90 $3.00 Copynight o 1990 by I Pres,, F AD i of reproduction - any lorm reecrved.
50596949
