DALLAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Texas April 14, 1954
Tobacco Firms Ask New Cancer Studies NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing Industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers. growers and tobacco tional" statements linking smoking Among those quoted by the çom. and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer slded picture of the relationship of Institute of the United States Gov- cigarettes and bealth and called port ernment, that the which said . a 1953 * for exhaustive research to estab- had not been cause established. of lung. Several cancer lish the basic cause of the disease. of the institute's scientista also committee issued a booklet con- Runyon Others quoted were the Damon published state- more research, and ments by thirty-six cancer author cer Surgeon Dr. Max Chicago à ities doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive Cutler, who by olher cancer experts that tobac develop lung cancer persons because may The earliest, whitten le 1923, said conclusion of a direct there were irritant in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientitic relationahip apd none that would produce turnors. hazardous." The most recent, dated last March F smoke in the lungs were "9t said much more research must sure-fire cause of be done before causes of lung can- have had it long ago," cancer, . the we'd all cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report The tobacco committee, formed Memooial Laboratory, Bar Har- 5 January te combat mounting bor, Maine. charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited dn of neariy every major eigarette University of Texas experts School of Medi- manufacturer and organizations eine, the Metropolitan Life Insur
The tobacco industry research were cited.
taining previously 8 causes lung cancer.
Fund, which called for of smoking but that partly to accept the
:
a at the
can be established.
director of the Roscoe B. Jackson Littie, ance Companyy and British authar ities, Neariy all those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until 'an absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report was described à an terim" industry spokesman as an "in- statement, pending an- nouncement of the choice of 4 basic prominent scientist to supervise nanced cancer research 8 be f-- Aq the industry. That scien tist will decide how the industry's cancer-research money is to be spent. No date has been set for his At the last count, the committee said; there were more than 850 cancer research grants in the United States alone, "any one of unlock which might produce evidence to the secrets of lung cancer," .
selection.
1
