14A-Contra Costa Times

Sunday, October 6, 1991

EDITORIALS

* cous

Curbing tobacco use
Patchwork of local laws spread public call for govermment action?
no way to fight smoking writing their own smoking rules is that
o we really need a patchwork of For example, Wainut Creek will ban,
county and city anti-smoking or- smoking in restaurants as of May 11 that
dinances like the ones adopted by means peopie who like to smoke while
the Contra Costa and Alameda County dining will simply go to the next town to
Certainly, evidence of the many dan- not comply with the current rule, which
gers of smoking is overwhelming. Tobac- requires restaurants to reduce smoking
co is the leading preventable cause of sections to 25 percent or less of available
death, killing more Americans than all seating. How many more will close when
other drugs, AIDS, murder, suicide and smoking is banned altogether?
threat to fetuses and a significant con- less restrictive. But it still creates rules in
tributor to a host of diseases. Even sec- unincorporated areas of the county that
ond-hand smoke threatens non-smokers. treat businesses differendy trom those in
But as evidence about the threat of most of the cities and towns.
smoking mounts. there has been a corre- To.their credit, boch Contra Costa and
sponding increase in public and private Alameda counties have taken aim at
reaction against tobacco, making govern- vending machines, banning them in ar-
The fact es that fewer and fewer peo- county has made allowances.for.mn
ple are smoking or putting dn with smok- chines using technology thatcaa prevent
ers. Businesses have responded by creat- them from being operated 4g minors.
ing separate smoking sections in offices, Efforts to prevent childrep.from.buy
Many private businesses have bannedd officials should better accommodate the
smoking in work areas. Smoking bans latest technology and thereby lessen
haye long been in place in theaters, ele- the financial impact on vendors.
And the trend is to further restrict and non-smoking diners. There is no rea-
smoking 5 areas open 8 the public o son for local governments 8 interfere
Businesses are well aware of the public working against smoking.

The problem with cities and counties
they create inequities and confusion.
eat. Already, one restaurant in that city
has been forced to close because it could 1

supervisors and the city of Walnut

Creek?

car accidents combined. It also ls a

The new Contra Costa ordinance is

ment intervention less urgent.
restaurants and other public areas.
vators, auditoriums and other en-
protect people from tobacco smoke.
concem about second-hand smoke and
have acted accordingly.

eas accessible 8 minors. But neither
ing cigarettes are admirable. Buf public
Also, smoking ordinances should al-
low restaurants to cater to both smoking
with market forces that already are
Statewide smoking laws that accom-
modate legitimate interests of business-

closed places.

Why, then, should county and city é treat everyone on an equal basis and
governments feel obligated 2 compose protect people from unwanted second-
restrictive smoking ordinances of their hand smoke make far more sense than a
own, particularty when there ls no wide- patchwock quilt of local ordinances.