True-raise Questions S the Chenistry and Poychophysioiogy.f...o end Flavor
1. TF Sone nodern workers suggest that accurate mensurenent of vibrationa!
frequency (in the far infrared, for example) of an unknown odorant
will pernit prediction of its quallty and intenslty.
T F No elenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone hes eny odor; Instead
they react with the nucose forning new products which are smelled; but
T F Sone odorants have steric or vibrational propertles which force the
concluslon that they are odorless whon they are not.
I1. T F Present evldence strongly suggests thot different parts of the olfactory
receptor ares, Ilke tho retina In the eye, are quailty-specific.
TF Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor
TF No one yet has a fir clue as to the criticol relation between the
molecule and the receptor which pernits en odor perception.
TF The greater the secretion rate of mucous or sallve, the higher their pH,
and both pli and tomperature influence the quallty of sensation in the
1I1. TF The idenl instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sane
quantitative range ns doon an animal or human subject.
TF Such an Ideal detector has not been developed.
Iv. : Ihman observors with head In fixed position cen by virtue of the two
Indopondent nostriis easliy discern stereo snall effects, 1.e. they
can tell whotier a odorant Is et the right or left hand, much as one
uses his two cars in locating the source of a sound.
+1 For certaln musk-like compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to
trigger a hunon olfactory response.
'A TF Adaptation to one olfactory qunlity does not significantly reduce
sensitivity to any other dissiel lar quality, but does reduce sensi-
tivity to all sinllor quelities.
TF By enploying a similerities nethod of conparing qualitles, one can now
obtain identity and degrees of difference without recourse to troulle-
vi. TF Hunger lowers thresholds slightly to some food qualltios but not for
1F Ir is now possible to identify the intensity and quality of a certain
given stimull simply by expert examination of the electrophysioiogical
record taken from appropriate odor or taste neurons.
1 F Electrical stimulation of taste in nan yields only reports of "sour"
and e "metallic" or "alkalind" quality.
T 3 Direct electrical stlmuletlon of the olfactory senso han never yet beon
successfully accompilshed.
VIl. TF Although total anosela is rare In humans and egeusia even rarer, there
is evidence that In analogy to color vision deflciences, some people
are Insensitive to (only certain) qualities while having normal
sensitivity to others.
- F Topical anesthetics applled to the tongue show that cifferent quelitles
1 F Certaln endocrine dlsease entitles nake It possible for sone people
quite sensitively to "smell" such "odorless" substances es sucrose or
sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be
reduced to normal by manipulation of endocrine levels.
TF Promenopausal wonen at the time of ovulation fInd certain odors extrenely
disegreeable whlle at other rines In the menstrunl cycle these seme odors

sone elenents possess taste.

surface In order to be smelled.

chenicn! senses.

sone words.
others.

51

of taste disappear nt different rates.

they will judge quite pleasant,

ovi A 3