page 43

HEHINONI
Philadelphia, Pa.
March 27, 1964

INQUIRER
Philadelphia, Pa.
March 26, 1964

2 Cancer Types Rare
In Nuns, Study Shows
PALM BEACH SHORES, Fla., March 26.-An extensive
Duns has shed light on some stubborn problems of medical
research, it was reported LIVE 6 YEARS LONGER
The survey, conducted with that the average age of death
the "generous collaboration" of was 7755 years, about six years
chureh authorities, has enlisted higher than for American wom-
the cooperation of more than) en in general.
116,000 nuns in 262 religious Dr. Nix said the nuns "get
Some preliminary results numbers as other women, but
based on pilot studies and a por. they seem to get them 10 years
tion of the main survey in 1963 later than the average woman."
-vere revealed here at the There was A strikingly low
sixth annual American Cancer incidence of cervical cancer,
Society Seience Writers' Semi- which Dr. Nix attributed- to
"This is an unusual type of en, although it can now be
activity for the -'uun said detected early enough with the
Dr. James T: Nix, of New so-called "Pap smear" test so
Orleans, director of the study. that it can be treated effective-
they. feit the knowledge is -mp Among the nuns, Dr. Nix found
portant, and that it was their only one case-in a 93-year-old
The survey's primary target a fairly high incidence hand, of breast was
lationships of health to celibacy, "The nuns realized that a
abstinence from alcobol or larger series would be of great-
mmoking and other environmen- er statistical value and have
One of the striking findings of death information for the cal-
the pilot study was that squa- endar year 1964," Dr. Nix said.
mous cell lung cancer-the type As the new data
chiefly eaused Aq smoking. are being processed pour .s they
which makes up the great computers of the Tulane the Univer- big
majority of all lung eancer sity Biomedical Computing Cen-
cases today-occurs only rarely ter. They promise valuable in-
Dr. Nix added that the é habits of living on health.

Higher Death Rate

Males Is

By GARY BROOTEN
Of The Inquirer Staff
among
Roman
America's
Catholie
The most striking finding:
heart attacks in about the same

Among

survey of causes of death
Thursday.

Attributed

to

Heavy Smoking
PALM BEACH Inquirer Staff 7 significant fact in itself.
March 25.-A leuding SHORES. Fla.. But by comparing the 69,000 ex-
statistician said Wednesday health that cess smokers" deaths with the
much of tbe long accepted dif. 153.700 excess death. among all
ference in death rates between men. the statisticians came to
sexes may be attributable to the conclusion that 14.8 percent
differences in eigaret smoking. of these excess deaths among
not fundamental sex differences. males could be blamed on
L. Levin, evidence now indi- Previuusly, tbe differences
cates that eigarets can be (which are usually expressed
America every year. deaths women) had been atiributed
Excess deaths can be defined loosely to biological and other
loosely as early deaths. In differences between men and
lated Aq comparing deaths 11. is important lo remember
general life expectancy expected tables. from He said ut. fact 1hal the
Dr. Levin. chiel of epidemi- Surgeon General's Advisory
ology at the Roswell Park Committee report on
Memorial Institute in Eutfalo, did not
smokin;
N. Y., made his remarks at the
give a figure for tota:
sixth annual American Cancer excess deaths due to xmokine
Society Science Writers' Semi "underscores the magnitude cl
par here.
this publie Levio health problem."
Hee offered figures
reported on the
patients who had gone
that nearly 45 percent of the throuph the institute's Ameri
higher male death rate can bc can Canicer Society-$ponsored
attributed to smoking.
rescarch project on smokers
The reasoning runs like this: withdrawal clinics, but gave no
In the 25-to-64-year age
statisties on how many had
155,700
more pen than women He said
died in Amcrica
preliminary
in a given indicate that an antismoking
typical year (1960),
compound, Lobeline. h elps
In the same year, there were smokers quit. but only while
69.800 excess deaths among male they are laking it.
smokers. These men
ably would not have died presum-
year had they not been that
smokers.
The excess deaths among
smokers constituted 20 percent

By GARY BROOTEN
of The

of all deaths for that age group

communities.

Furthermore. said Dr. Morton smoking.
blamed for "a minimum"
100,000 excess

nar.

celibacy and good hygiene. Can-
cer of the cervix is a common
disease. among American wom-

DUTY TO HUMANITY

in of as a longer life expectancy for

"But they cooperated because ly.
duty to ali their sisters and to
E humanity."
la to pin down some of the è cancer.
talfacions.

siooingg studies. they are calcu- women.
among smokers at each
level with deaths

that other factors are at work,"

age Dr. Levin said.

.
sister. On the other

there

already started collection of nun

first Dr. 300
indicatini

in,

among the muns.
rules
ulcers.

formation on the infuuenc of

group. quit smoking.

lggoou communities' no-smoking
seem a likely reason for
a strikingly low incidence of
bleeding or perforating peptic
Preliminary results from the
main study were based oa 575
of the 1116 deaths reported in
the communities last year.

results

heavy

1005151230 A