WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRIBUNE D. 25,605 a S. 49,326 WACO METROPOLITAN AREA MAR 6 e96!
F. Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard-- Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission from going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it does not scem right or logical that onc medium of advertising be forbidden the producer while displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC said i1 is proposirg to refuse licenses to broadcasters who carry cigarette adverlising because of evidence that smoking is injurioun to hcalth and the FCC has an obligation le protect the public interest. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals to do es they please 50 long as they don't harm ancther. Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if you don't mention something. maybe de won't Congressman Paul Rogers, F-lordda Democret, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Con- merce Commitice, said in reference to the proposed FCC rulc that the ngency had overstepped the bounds of its nuthority. le said he doubts that FCC has any right o) tell an advertiser what he could not say in his advertisements. Rogers said Congress will take a cluse Icok at the whole question of regulations on television and radio advortising content, not only as o) the Federal Communications Commission but in regard to Federal Trade Commission praclices as TTh stakes involved extend beyond the business of broadcasting. They o3 to the heart of whether government burcaus should he allowed to o3 beyond
advertising. i
billboards and counter
C newspapors, magazines,
Hazardous to Your Heakh..
hurt you and will disappear.
well. 2
the linits of due proccss and Che law,
