- 496
224 .
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
: Findings
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem
Richard L. Nacye, MD, and Woodrow S. Dollinger, MS may vayy in incidence and Soomerect Coonties of eentral pneumoconiosis were enined anthracite roal. Survey eon- roentgenog/aphic ing rhift of exposure 2 werk- lle tnu chsdrciers eatie font of uir 11.4PU.0 fur paritdes per
Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite ol multiple disorders, each of which severity from one pationt to another. In bituminous coal, found to correlate well with quantitative. measurements ol € the volume of postmorlem anatorni nodules, and (2) the silica (silicon pulmonory dust macules and macules and nodules. recognition of emphysema and chronic cor which appear to be most closcly correlated pulmonale, wilh miners with no rocntgenographic emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspnea in addition lo dust with silica and collagen.
process but a a study of 77 miners of dioxide)and collagen content of dust évidence of pncumoconiosis had
rank, low-volatile coal In Cambrin and rylvania. Nonc of E men l'enn- ducted between 1902 und 19-5 ly the Fennsylvanin lepartmeat of Miner End Mineral Industries skowed an average coal dunt biturinea work- free silica cuntent of evnl d Jat in low ia all arenn of F ackdom belng greater lenneyhn ttan 3.. However, the mine Jurt coteee.raa t: mof free sillea In greater for u iderground wurkers Puch as sorve rof ojer. The T7 cascs pulverin drand. Calmne fkes ly ranthera, whorinited ench of ruven pirppss R. -neral huspitah, and rea. AU- every man nge win I aml 1hhis. The hathh easen atarted with the patioi Rirts' descriptimus of the lungn. Tir U ere was any mennlon of When eve.evve pi.mmnnt, parenchymal nnduh A Ni.n nl. or any hlstury of mining. the ti. nt'a clinical chart wae -ul eran.iedd, rtudy unly utrendsa 474 specin. minen L.al vr in tu: iirmed ly a r I-tn qehrild wasnhtained. (lrnun- Ph Imm0mm0--NurAOO,,, 223 027050
roentgenographic categories for
hnd ever
Unfertunately. there was poor
dyspnea. A munber of ern, The
macules
.
wwo 107 to 4Ga of Appulachian chitis graphie evidenee of pneu- been dilicult lo make, earlystages." Theae diniculties prob of the current workere pneummeoniosis ("black lung") de not A single disense but a composite uf and neverity, dependent upon Rro gruphie aren, exort posure, and apparent individual sus- ceptibility.. These multipde din Patiruty.TTh orde. indude(1)the prinarycont lust Cullgpntt F de ? . Crater, Reptm P a M. a . M.r Hrrryy s Aucl nevrly ttuu Herd.,. dbe. I I Aprul "or 1972 Vol 220, No 2
H coal workers have roentgeno lur, panlobular, andhronchiolitis...) erntriluhu l-lerr and deerri Inconqive meconionis, but corelaaiinn helween emphysema: und a tuberrulusin and n.k or encounter Inte allla-bearing symptoms, And physieal findinge have There separate di-epse prirerse tl. rough R search selerted uf nite keatsd ably arie from the faet that roal individoal sunly evahuate thcir Le P protorel that
and pararleatiicial : who drill
such roentgenugrophie abnormalitics. onvuiimallly othur di rrae precesges."
appear to make ditfering mwitaibu e! ographie fentures of parumormiinsi,, l- trevh 196U prores Another aim is tu determine ir pnrn- for enigenographic alnormalaties Patients Studiod and Methods
erpecinlly .s lions to disability." I is the
In
insluences nn the ruentgen 4 4 than 21 yrara Invoheda of
each of which multiple disorders, muconiuris with dinalailiy esista in may vary in inridehre sonee workera withemst assuricted
orcupational à
patient Were 77 un. nr. - informatinn
macule; (2) ailicuris (1) chrunic liaan dergronnd miners nf hituminuun cnal li .nml uthrr datn encernning napa
frum Pennykania and Wert Vir- à 5 man inrludel in were the- est.ce: A
Fem d hopan ni nf Prt-tr..M4- ginia, Thir:y-one E tlwaye mined nf r Cniser.il Hanyy Medical Catvr.. Penn..huhis State lew-rank high-vol.tib-cualii emaniie gr unel trvagaatinn In
of santhwe.tern north- ether 4i hal
Pommylaania W.. PUBLICATIONS
Vir.it.ia TI. 1: "aail hnd Irkydame tim i.ining rettiie
alvayy mim d highrr in" wmatim
10346287
