HKR2228112 SANTABARBARA SANTA.
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIECO
: BA. I 4 : Au.. tn . 1 . SASIRASE Mu
IABII MIOEA 2
VIB in wIIII ILPAKIMI 4 u PADH January 3, 1977 Dr. Willian H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Rescarch roundation 715 Kuir Lands Vista Hay La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. Fishman: and Salk.
We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of Lhe La Jolia rescirch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the la Jolla Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzynes should fit in well with ongoing activities noi only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establisnnent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental prublems is partizularly ieely. It will be 0! grat potential importance for pulling tcgetter work, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, characteriztaion and doterrinaation of the sionificance of huraan oncodevelopmental antigens such as alphafetoprotein and carcinoembryonic antigens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship of increased serura concentrations of ArP to precalignant lesions or carcinogen exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systers clearly deronn strate tnet anirals pasodxa to hepatocarcinovens have elevated serum ArP concen- trations prior to developrant of mslignant lumers. It is hoped that systeretic study of hunan scra frua differert svurces vill deterwinc if serus AFP concun- In addition, the role of envirunsental factors such as hormonal influences on the production of encodevelopmentaal gene prik. can be further explored in different sy:tons. Such data inplies Lhal (he prod;u tion of ohcocavelopmental gene products by turor ceils is net a fixed property of a given tumor but is We look foncard to workina with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the inportunt subjeri of oncodeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatoc.rrcinoge exposure.
subject to environmental controls.
expression. Best regards, Stewart Sell, H.D. Professor SS/nb
a
