LOS ANGELES TI-ES
Los Angoles, Californio
October 20, 1954
n been proved,
lale
L'niversity

haveil uudn the premise that hination e A partirular tvpe
a inneection hetween riea- in each nfthe three categories
Calls rer in smokine and disesse ha: hae alrcady produced 'a sale
Might Take Six Months one it is. so all can be made
Dr. aa Cuyler Hammond. that way. If not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Carrnce Cnok Litte,,
complete statistica! study to chairman of the scientife ad-
date. said that "some say we visnrv bnard and seient fie di.
should wait for more defini rector o: the Toharro Indus.
tive evidence before develop- try Rescarch Committee, de-
ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would
nne harsaid just what the de produre some nf "the defni
finitive evidence wmud be." live eviderce" S waich Dr
He sud he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In his :alk In the Ameriran "We wiil tackle simultan
system was more important, line of the industrv's research
migh: prove surcessful in six do not have today Ihe experi-
months, "with kcck," he said menta! evidence that wilper-

cigarette J1, so. seientific re-
search should prove which
should find one, "since
ple like to smoke eigarettes."
seribed the nutlines nf stgd-
Tackle Unknewns

Expert
for

atatistician

peo-

Safe
Cigareftes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming

NEW YORK, Ort. 61 ALP) this viewnoint.

The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr. eously many of the unknowns
arette smoking with bath Hammond said the relation- in this feld of tobacen use in
lung cancer and heart dis. ship nf rigare:te smoking to relation to tuman health," he
ease is "overwhelming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the ou!-
something should be done at from the standpoint ol public program. "We seek definitive
once about developing "a safe health, than the relationship findiggs in an area where
cigarette, a a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to much suggestive work has
cal scientist told the annual find "a safe cigarette" from heen done. The program nf
meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recngnizes tha: we
Uie advisory board of the There are various types ol garding the raure and eFerr
Tobacco Industry Research tnhacen, there are varinus relationship hetween rrv ron-
Cummittee ansounced some of types R. fiters, and there are mental factore ineludine
the details nt it seicatife re- various sont.wy n! curing The most important

Cancer Society today.
At the same time the scien-

Outlines Deseribed

mit scientific eonci:sions rn.
smokire and lune eancer
current lung cancer case: in
10 medical centers in :he :ni
ed States and Canada

srarch
program

which toharen, he Raid, and it may

prnyett

ls he thar some fortuitous com- Fet up waa a diree: sudyy - nf

Los ANGE LaS EXAMINER
los Angeles, California
October 20, 1954

It will Include numerous
studies of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers.
an well aa tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. The specirie research
grants, financed Aq the TIRC,
will be announced later.

HEALTHSTUDY
ON TOBACCO
NEW YORK. Oct. 19.-UP
A broad sbx point study seek
Ing knowledge whether eigarets
or other forms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health haz.
ards was announced today,
It is the first announcement
of a big research proxram
headed by the sclentifie ad.
visory board of the Tobacco In.
dustry Research Committee

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062