24

slu/PP

JAT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
New York Timer Servir

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars A

made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even 'in recent

($2.86) compared with 22
panies can advertise on TY after
cigarettes and
an aggressive campaign. Television
gifts,"
Pee
LAL
was out-
lawed ln the
States in 1971.
junior high
CACEEE
old Cigarette packages sold in
13ycars
and uTA must carry - label weRE
sakè & health, don't smoke loo
to
ma
with than the health-warning labels
lou of much because of the adver.
tising as because they are of better
manufactur- quality and Laste beiter. American

TAIPEI - The Mariboro cow. dn sales of $119 million. ln 1986, trade talks betwoen the United L Taiwan dollars C cents)fora
boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Suaies und Taiwan. Wang Chien. pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghng from his mouth, has come le eign cigarettes DOw hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan'sdeputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis
town, His picture adoms kiocks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, regisiered A ing in Japan are more liberal. Com-

and dod-pus-mom stores through- uv) cigarettes accounting for 15 strong prolest.
guitar-playing. pep-suval promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted
This frenetic, fast-growing DA- cigaretie exporis last year, primari- teachers told me that
billion cigarettes last dropped long-siandiog restrictions. are now smoking How can
rubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? Ic's O.K. lo
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy - $16 vom trade
ialand, and that has created e furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year that."
Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled American cigarette
tbe American companies of entic the past year. The market share
ing teen-agers unke dn mokingg more than o
- charge the American companies from 3 percent percent s 1986,
The goverumeat-adminisserdd dicts that it could grow 9 1y 8. 20 sales pitch.
operation that had monopolized percent kq 1992.
.prescure from Washingion. In the alcohol.
year since stift restrictions oe for. "This really burts our
.cign cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw
have soared,
-peddod growth American man-
pasr
ufacturens ata time wben sales ds export Tawwan? Younger
law =
way 'dn

oul this city, next to posters oln peroeni.
b
Winston
of
cigarettes.
tioe of
nearly 20 million people
mmoked 34

amusement placesto 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

most
for o the
in American
growth
ly because

aid said recently. "Many scbool- advertising of

both Tawan and Japan school students - 12,

year and for the first time, E According lo the Brown Pri Wi. rette companies promote ciga- roughly translated, says, "For the
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting 5 $i billion in new sales. the. United States. But surplus those people mandaled in the United States.
Wfacturers have essentially intro InJapan, which has - population are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe bompanies Ameniann
paonp cigarette advertising to the of 120 million and where people, man, huran being.you won't do cigarettes are selling wyi in Taiwan

made .9 America, not Taiwan. all American-made

cigarettes occupy the whole markets. We en- much" - warnin much milder

American cigarettes increased E vigorously deny there is any-

S
botly deny.

525
last
2E

thing wrong with the way they are digareties are made of blended 1o
promoting their products and bacco and have less which tar than Tai-

are not

Department of Agriculture pro- ihry have no pians to change Es wanese bleaded. cigarettcs,

They are not allowed to advertise
l small stores where cigarettes are
kold, a well as through promo
! feelinga." legisiator. tions. Cigarette manulacturers may
doom exccods 200,000.
Le
C

the cigarette market had not adver- Taiwan officials tbey resent lo television or in newapapers. Nor
A government agreed de allow markets le producu that éndanger They can advertise only througb
.others into the business oaly under ppople's health, like cigarettes and posienshung near cigaretie racks or
A American cigarettes b Taiwan A.. ube United Shau-kong Suates docs not en- laso place 120 ade I year 5 magi
the Unitod Suates are way down and females are smoking 1 99. Beooee last i forcign ciga-
and 8 number of anti-smoking causc of American E They bire retio accountod R lcas than 1
According to the U.S. Depart- arettes free in sonpiu k' kna cigarettes. banned imports at *
mbbtt R Agricutture, people B Tal- difficult lor young boys 6 resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenued ot sell

Liied, altbough it does Dow,

American pressure 59 open their have they pushed so do so, they say.

much- courage its people lo amoke, why zines, cach ol whosc droulation acl-
young attractive poo-v0a-6 girla oent of tbe market Taiwan
Suuvan short skirts lo pive "p à posed strict quotas on forcip
and then it becoma A habit. It's cigarettes and imposed rtil tariffs.

9

24

immoral."

E rerult, imported ciparetie cost