Genetie Epidemiology 5:265-275 (1988)
Estimating Genetic Parameters of Survival Distributions: A Multifactorial Model
Joanne M. Meyer and Lindon J. Eaves
Department of Human Genetics, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond For 2 number of genetically influenced illnesses, age of ooset is correlated between relatives. ln some cases, age of onset also serves : an index of an individual's inherited liabiliry to an illness. Typically, survival models for age of onset distri- butions do not allow for these effects. We have used the gamma distribution as the basis of a model which specifies genetic variabiliry in a8e of onset. Specifically, we aliow uhe hazard frequency parameter of the gamma distribution le be a monotonic function of an individual's inherited liabiliry i an illness. under various gamma models indicate that age of onset correlations may be strikingly different from correlations in liability. Maximum likelihood estimation procedures were used le obtain parameter estimates from simulated data seus and OI deiermine whether la is possible oo discriminate hetween gamma processes of different order. The results for 1,000 pairs of twins O0S) monozygotic and 500 dirygotic) gave parameter estimates that were fairly accurate but that decreased .s precision as the order of the gamma process increased. We discuse the effect chis may have on inferences made about age of onset. Key words: age of onset correlations, survival models, gamma distribution
rolato
Simulations
INTRODUCTION
Genetic analyses of illnesses and behaviors showing a variable age of onset require a knowledge of the cumulative probability of onset by given ages. Some approachès (Weinberg, 1915; Stromgren, 1938; Risch, 1983) derive this probability from prior age of onset distributions. Others (Elston, 1973; Heimbuch et al., 1980; Risch, 1983) estimate parameters of a cumulative age of onset distribution from the data. When the data allow its use, the latter method is more appealing since specific
Received for publication January 11, 1988; revision accepied April 22, 1988.
Address reprine request 1e Joanne Meyer, Department of Human Geneties, Box 33 Medical College of
Virginis, Richmond, VA 23298. 1988 AJan R. Liss, Inc.
