BOULDER DAILY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

a

Area stores

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For the Delly Camera
4
kids.
kar

referring to the Increased enforce.
pènally fur selling tobacco eor ml-
tried 0 Anq Ulie cigarelles. The

ment.

Boulder police stung 11 busl- Store clerks unlucky enougb. OF
nesses this week during a crack- get'auggtt were issueda summone
doun on selling cigarettes to mi- to appoar 5 court. Thc. maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve noris B $200 fine.
of. the American Cancer Soclety's The Supa involved two tcams.
Great American Smokeout, was -" Each included u uniformed 'omeer.
tended to educate clerks that it's -Il a piain clothes ouncer. and two
legal S sell tobacco producte to Fairview High School sirts, who
Police targeted gas stations. con: giris' parenis signed a waiver al-
vênience, drug, grocery and *# lowing themto take partin the.op:
- 1aw has never been enforced, pies Tne Juvenlles were told not to
Jopinog Policc Ofiicrr Mary Man plead with, or beg the clerk e sell
"We're letting the stores know had to show identification.

"coun slores. Until recently, the eratlon.
thie le going to happen," ehc sald,

the cigarettes. and, if asked, they
(Sce DOULDER, Page 3C)

Boulder police sting stores
for cigarette sales to minors
At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry,
28uh SL, one of the girls asked when she was issteed R Sum-,
the cashier for a pack of Mart mons. oys caid Ahe was - stur
boro Lights. Oncce Rob Hauke- Juep, and couldn't atorr 2u
ness, is plain clothes, poons "L court costs. HAnkeness poi "01
ihnahhhhind her to witnece tho oongole her, saying she could:
A placard near the cash regis. the Distriet Attorney to do com, .
ter read, P.. ID my own mother. munity eçrvice instrad of paying
clerk asked tn sèe some identif- The clorke, not the store OwTI
cation. Thc buyer produced lier ert or manugers, have to pay the.:
she WAS only "21 Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it 0 punish.
cd at the license, set it down on stores or clerks," she said. "Al-:
the counter, and sold her the though, when you see clerks cry:
Aflrr they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted *sI
stepped dn and identified him storcs and clerks a all bur -
eelf as a police officer. Manka received summonses.
came In and wrote the clerk A Tnic wock's operation was
"When I see them ask for an year. The frss sting, conducted.
E I think they're going to 2 us September, targeted 16 stores
fuce the calo," Haukeness said. und 15 clerks received gum

(From Page (OT

The clerk at Colony Market,

transaction.

Atqugaad work out a deal-with-

No 'ar No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, /
driver's license, which showed court costs.

a
.

cigarettes.
summons.

ing, you miggh think otherwise."
secund tobacco sale stine - the.

"Bul they never do."

monses.