May 16 96. 8:44
P.11
Chicago Tribune
MAY. 91 9661
Philip Morris, UST offer plan to curb teen use of tobacco Proposal would prohibit FDA regulation,
'loosies : ban By Barbara Sulliva TRIBUEE STAFF WAmE Philip 'oorris Cos. and UST A om) of the largest tobacco companies. went on the olln-- sive Wednesday, proposing sweeping legislation to curb teen tobacco use. The proposals, which would include a ban on vending machine and 9119-4810-0-3uss sales and Impose curbs on a advertising. go further than restrictions sought by. the Food and Drug Administration, the companies said. The quid pro quo, however. is that the vaa be prohibited from any regulation or tobacco prod- ucts. "It there's FDA involvement. the deal is not on the table," corporate allairs. are not meant as a compromise, and restricting tobacco usage. this ls a solution." beneficial
machine salès
and vending 3/1
Be444 Nnaak
6 phoso
said Ellen Merlo, Philip Morris "Steve Pariih.. a Philip Morris USA senior vice president of Cos. senior vice president. at a Merlo also said the proposals news conference Wednesday. or frst step toward rapproche- pany and UST is the biggest mnnn.. with the government's maker of snuff and chewing mounting push toward regulating tobacco. The two companies. "This way beyond a com- support from other tobacco promise." goes Merlo said. "We think companies. said their proposal Merlo said further that the industry fund spent over a five- proposals are so comprehensive year period to help implement that unilateral action Aq Philip the legislation. Morris- and UST would not be Some anti-smoking advocates, "We couldn't implement these posals as nothing more than a actions on our own. withoit leg- blatant smoke screen to keep islation." she said. "tr only one the FDA out of the picture. or OMI companies participated. "They reautze that the FDA is Philip Morris. maker of Marl- kids from the blandishments (of boro cigarettes among others. S1 the tobacco industry) and they
which have not yet received would include a $250 million however. saw the tobacco pro- most serious about protecting Sez CIGARETTTS PACE 2
there would be no impact." the world's biggest tobacco com
