NEW-YORK POST, FRIDAY, MAY. "ZI P661 L. NEWWORKPPOS Ancennnas older contaononsly pubrished diity mewspuper
Anti-smoking skulduggery health E about to testify on behalf of the uments. enterod Perhaps the not. But unless he has that he is secretly receiving a salary from liams why Scruggs pmom provide Wil tobacco lawyers. It also emerges that the Moreover, with such substantial "loans." scarcher a house and have co-signed two interpret LAmpps..se car loans for him. In his defense, the 8 This is not the first time Scruggs has entist insists that, except for the salary, been involved with a subsidized whistle- Question: How would the media likely Brown & Williamson executive Jeffroy react? A huge brouhaha to say the latter's Wigand. CBS Newa promised to the The scientist's research, whatever its Williamson pons Wigand for breaching actual merits, would be buried under a his contract's confidentiality clause dur- mudslide of derision. The tobacco indus- ing a widely reported appearance on "60 BS grounds for attempting to buy a wit- CBS lawyers, fearing that the offer to Now lot's change a few details. Say the preted as an inducement 8 break the scientist is a tamopoopsuu,, who asserts contract, initially scotched the that the tobacco industry is Amy aware After the substance of Wigand's segment. that cigarette smoking is lethal and has hit the newspapers, his înterview charges was worked to conceal this fact for decades. eventually "parre The lawyers providing the salary and Meanwhile, the anti-tobacco forces also "loans, rather than working for the to- suffered an embarrassment when a for- bacco industry, are in fact spearheading mer Philip Morris employee recanted tes- There you hhve SRmm chain of events that. Drug Administration (FDA). actually unfolded recently in a Louisville, Jerome Rivers, a former Ky., courtroom. Yet the near-silence sur- supervisor for the conglomerate, manufacturing with- rounding the incident has been deafen- dréw his claim that Philip Morris rou- infS Today, one of the few papers to els. (The FDA hoped to use this Merrell run the story on Page One, reported that "evidence" to justify regulating tobacco a I Williams, a former paralegal for a drug.) a law firm representing Brown 3 Wil- Critics incessantly liamson Tobacco Corp., received a industry is amoral, portray even tobacco ita $109,000 mortgage puni othor financial "crime" consists in selling a though rewards. Williams had made internal uct that millions of Americans legal prod- corporate documents available to attor- After these shenanigans, it is clear enjoy. that Scruggs one of was the tobacco lawyer Richard some of tobacco's foes would do well 19
Imagine this scenario: A scientist who claims to have discovered that cigarette leading Scruggs opponents. insists he smoking poses no danger 8. human tobacco industry. Suddenly it's revealed clear same lawyers have bought the e
didn't"buy" any doc- bankcing business, it is un- how are. reasonable people to blower: He also represented former legal fees in the event tapeyy & pay Wigand's logal costa could be inter-
it's all just a loan. least. ness.
would be roundly côndemned on ethi- Minutes."
the campaign
it.
timony he had given to the Food and tinely measures and adjusts nicotine lev-
the
neys His suing benefactor the tobacco companies.
when the subject of ethics comes industry's take a careful look in the mirror.
