: -

A X a

-
PKu 3ov

Carcinogenesls vul IS mI ti rp2721-2725. rool

Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke
carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-@-ppyiddd))-1-butandne and
benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of

C3420

chemopreventive agents

Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin
Amencan Hleaihh Foundarien. Valhalla, NY 10595. USA

models examined to date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class
of carcinogenic polyeyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco
smoke (I). We have chosen the A/ mouse because previous

The purpose of this study SEA to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce
model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents agninst lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced
lung cancer ln smokers. Lung tumor induction in AJJ mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to
by 2-mmehllllrrssmiin...1---yrrdylllibut.mm (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined
and benzola)pyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated.
individually or in combination. Groups of Cemale A/J mice 2 evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg
were treated by either intragastrie gavage (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of
intraperitoneal injection (l.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP,
and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diechylnitrosamine and7.12-dimethylbenzaaanntraacnne (9,10).
either 9 or 61 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the AJ mouse ol evaluate the effects of
forestomach were counted. The i.g. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK
proved to be more satisfactory than "d' administration, (4.11,12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse can be replicated
because il avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl lisothiocyanate
thelnjection site and associated mortality. A dose-response (PEITC) le an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by
relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 ral (11,13).
mice killed 9 or 61 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single
treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect 01 tobacco
of +z. jumol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke. which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The
have been expeeted extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important
when given kq the i.g. route: l.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either
were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP.
The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to
evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during
dose of 24 jmol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition. the model should be relatively rapid and
subdoses i.g., with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we examined tumor yields obtained
dosing. This regimen induced 10.5#4.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously (or
mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61
ethylisothiocyannte, given 2 i prior o each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a
and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzy! isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC
tuioo formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP.
this study provlde a convenlent model for assessing the NNK was synthesized in the American Health Foundacion Organic Synchesis
efficacy of chemopreventive agents against Sunt cancer Facility. Rs purity was established by HPLC as >997. BaP (98% purity),
Our goal im this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were
could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained en AIN-76A dirt containing s% corn oil, as previously 2
play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups ef 15 as sammarized in Table 1. At age 7 weeks. each mouse war
kers: 44.maaiylnttoammnn..1-3-pynudb----uunn (NNK*) treaced by imraperitoneal (ip.) injection or by intragastic gavage lig)) with
and benzolalpyrene (BaP) e NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical ia 0. mi cononseed oil. NNK und BaP were both
carcinogen with organospecificiity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in the 0. ml uned for treatment Injections and gavages were carried
*Abbrovintions: NNK. wwww0N-----ppaa---.oopucsonpppiuawh individuat dese was one-eighth of the notal. Equimolar doses of NNK and
AaP, benzolelpyrene: PEITC, pheneihyl isathiocyanaie; BITC, benzyl BaP were wsed le most of the combination 'sdnord because the emounts of

which these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given

The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively

of NNK and BaP E combination was established in the
that Bal was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK

Most previous studies in the A/ mouse have examined
We sought o) develop a model which could be used to

Comparisons of

and RaP given individually showed representatives of the lung

in tobacco smoke

red

carcinogens

(11.

5.925.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P v 0.001) and completely
inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.

inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods

BITC (989 (Ayadd and PEITC (98% (Aynd were abtained from the Aldrich
Chemical Company (Milwaukee. wi). Cottonseed oll was purchased from
Female AJ mice. age 5 wecks. were obtpined from The Jackson Laboratory
(Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the
The desiga ofthe bioassay is illustrated a Figure 1. The mice were dividede
out for 8 consecutive werks. The tetal doses are given in Tuble L Eacha
NNK and total carcinogenic polyayelic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke are

Sigma Chemical Co. (S1 Losis, MO).

Introduction
8

agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).

5

isothiocyanate. ip. intriperitomeal, : introgastric gavage.

Ooxford Unvenity Press

2721

-