*

SYMPTOMS AND THE LNJWNOOBANA-OOJWW IN THE
SICK BULLDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.

ASHRAÉ and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

et al. (1987) investigared the frequency of complaints in 43

4 e cross-sectional investiganion in one building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validesed
complainss associased wich the "sick building syndrome" questionnaire. The symptoms were more commoa .B build.
were measured on e linear analog i questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system abso provided cooling and
Ar the same time. the micro-environment (environmental humidification. irreppcctive of the i of the I A
characseristics in the breaching zone i I area direct relationship between the level of complaimss and air
samples) a characterized 4q measuring temperanure, Kurenb parameten : not described. Skov et a (1987) en.
relacive humidiry, respirable popuadsns "omppoundd 8 paurur indoor air quality symptoms in 14 moder Danish
bon dioride, noise level, lighaigg insensiry, relacive har town halls and 14 older control buildings. A level of i
midiry, and airflow. No relarionship a seen berween toms was related o1 "Aeecing" factor (carpets, upholserr..
4 degree of symptoms and age. 4 or duranion and horizontal surfaces) iad the "macro-molecular 4
of employmeni at the building or aime nads in dhe 1 4 of dust. They also demonstrated - relationship between
hv on . daily I Staristically, complaines were the number of hours spent photocopying and using carbonless
significancly more frequent I Buppous 3 Envi- kdoo paper and tbe level of complaints. Ocher srudies have
ronmensal characteristics associased wich R increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985)
complaint levels in this group included decreased airflow a psychodynamic factor (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute
models, chere a an association benveen noqndds nc- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome b mea-
pended particulates and the levels of boch mucous I suring swonduks and environmental exposures. Robertoon et
brane pue syssemi complaints. Sanisfaction 1 * F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif.
I environment as predicted wopdsoua ofdreft ferences ls the concentrations of eavironmental
alshough regression models R 4 t compl * building. E studied the rooms with the f compl

.

velociry and increased levels nqundrasoo -ddpppuudsn 8 indoor air quality complaints.

riculases 7 dry-bulb semperanure. In regression

Several studies have attempted 8 identify the actual

R nor

I
ventileted
naturally
again

clearty contribule o she
I a independent of chermal I F
insensiry a also associated 1
mudies of * sick building syndrome
L measures o idenrify predictors of complaints in

of sympeoms, berween rooms .s a mechanically and a

!
D

I a used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did I
uncre strate a relationship berween symptoms and 8 area sa
I ples measuring dust R a "macro-molecular" traction,
Area samples is buildings ! Dot be representative of
a exposures le different points le single I Physical
characteristics such as windows and partitions. I
and shelving may infuence air currents. Radiam I may

mulaiple exposures simultaneously and include prycho B i H

indoor spaces.
INTRODUCTION

Complaints lermed the "sick building syndrome" I lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, I pol
led 6 numerous investigations in a last is years. They are hutants resuh from point sources, os they will be diluted a -
thought oi occur primarily ls newty constructed I 1 subject .n farther removed from the source. The micro 4
ings and, at least .s the pest, were thought to be a to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem, . different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroo
# variety of causes have been identibed lg specifl settings, ment of a building. le addition. all applied occupational and
inctuding inadequate temperature and relative humidiry 8 environmental health rescarch that attempes oi relate E to
trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds beakt effects suflen from the probiem E I is penerally
and formaldehyde. microorganisms, environmental sobecco measured at several points in time and then extrapolated lo A
smoke, pesticides, a entrainment of vehicle i Q allow development of exposure classifications I decades
spent k contaminated air and boiler I fbers released * most heakth effects are measured as a single I of
from R linings. and ofice machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures. Where the variability of I
A group of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms may change not merety trom
et a 1984) 1 that these complaints were related pri day lo day but from hour to hour, such a strategy must fail.
(Robertson et al. 1985) was unable oi identity diflerences in attempted to characterize sir-quality parameters in the micro
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (semper environment and set these characteristics le relacion o a
ature), relative humidity. air velocity, formaldehyde. or poe level of individual complaints at . given point .s time. This
itive or nepative ions between several rooms in . building report presents resules of a cros-sectiinnll investigation of .
with natural and - building with mechanical vencilacion, problem building using - setf-ddmiiistered. E analog.
where both a of rooms had high levels of complaines. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
E I a Amauan Profemor of Medicine and ol Induscrial and Eavironmental Heahh Scences at the Univeruty of I School
of Medicine and Publc Heahh. 'd f a Direcior. Environmental Heahh and Salery. Camepie-Melloon Univeruty. Pittsburgh. PA.

(Kreiss and Hodpson 1984; Hodgson a Kreiss 1986).
marily oi mechanical ventilation. A same proup of author

results is preater than the difference in average samples, and
No investigations in the peer-reviewed literature I

i

(Rcicers FRP,y Busp