to
9-9-P
Makersof Cigarettes Claim Nolnterestin Pot NEW YORK aa - Ciga- OPLAOOEE TOBACCO company rette manufacture have Dd erest in report recommendation was
h a a - * AV a Tuesday official noted that the staff legalize marijuana for per- of vons over 18 years age 2 while : the. biggest market Preventlon wmight be a lower age brack- * w Jdda a mends legalization o "pot" NAr Jane sort of : goes with the youngsters." com- Sam Fouts, advertis ""N, no no, De = aa Fing wmented manager for Larus Bros. been a rumorfor, pp. last E 3 a & Co., ol Ricbmond, Va. years and thatgave E caase 'Mary Jane ls an old nick- to check 4 2 thoroughly, this a pame for marijuana but gen- erally has fallen Into disuse anywhere methh industry. among the young. William Kloepter R the: To - Fouts, noting that mari- bacco Institute, declared. : juana is' "still a rather taboo topic" in the cigarette in- "THERE LNSI P ol. dustry, emphasized that his goes by thaf'some Segment. 'company "wouldn't touch it
eay chey à diversifying to paw mari- 0p - juana, despite a taft réport A of the on the Causes - ol Violence I 2recom- Wet for adults.
. dn
There is * to
L -
A9e 1 month t the underground * press doesn't cerry astooy about at all." how tobacco companies arei gearing E ffor the marijuana trade," powrrpoop Bolling. vice president and assistant Philip Morris, chairmanlot 3 3 Inc. He pE anaaee this type of 5 speculation was 2 uncer- laigepue nee tobacco com- panies E Aprggnd beld,and under strict govermmnnt con trol; noone 'can evea remote- ly become involved! beccass at. "he present 1 dme mari- juana is illgga.. 1. nicc MER . -There have béen persistent stories 2 that "tobacco com- panies "already have regis. tered E possible . beand names trademarks .hatt in- clude some of the current ve- nacular dssociated 4pmm marijuana, and that 'they have been buying dn huge tracts ol land in Mexico on which to harvest marijuana. - wewerppp à "WE'RE NOT filing for trademark names like "Aca- pulco Gold' or buying land south of the border," coPB mented, Jnbr M - a s 4 ws wit En . > an wn A mit 19 a 1 . de $ : # . a unt hac mi 17 a wi . a er 14 de . E 4 # A a 85 20 . a . . Bee - wn 0 is iv euer - a kr us 4 * 1 on4 os de vie YEEE 4 . . AR .
