SYMPTOMS AND THE LNGIANOHIANE-OHOIW IN THE
SICK BUILDING AWOHUNAS A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.LH.
complains associased with the "sick building syndrome
Ar same ame, themicro-environment (environmental

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT
the

et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
questionnaire The symptoms were more commoa .B build.

In a cross-sectional investiganion 5 & building. office buildings built over the last 8 years with a validased
were measured on a linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and
characteristics S the breathing zone rather than area direct relationship berween the level of complaints & air
samples) a characserized by measuring temperanure, quality parameten : not described. Skov et a (1987) :
relacive humidiry, respirable suspended 'pepmpund car. amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern 1
bon dioxide, noise level, lighaing insensiry, relacive har town halls and 11 older control buildings. A level ol 1
midiry, and airflow. No relarionship a seen berwern toms was related 1 a "feccing" factor (carpets, upholesery.
the degree of symptoms and age. educarion. or duranion and horizontal surfaces) ad the "macro-moleculer I
of employmenu at the building or nime spent S the 1 nent" of dust. They abo demoostrated a relationship between
Sug on a daily basis. Staristically, complaing were the number of houn spent photocopying and using carbonles
significantly more frequent among smoking - Envi- Kdoo paper and the level of complaints. Other srudies have
ronmensal characteristics associased 1 * increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985)
complainu levels in this group included decreased airflow and prychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute
models, chere was an association berween respirable as- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome by mea-
pended parsiculases and the levels of boch mucous mem- suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertaon et
brane and syssemic complaints. Satisfaction wish * F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif.
thermal environment a predicsed by percepaion of dreft ferences la the concentrations of environmental pollutants
R nor clearty contribuse to she degree of sympioms, berween rooms in a mechanically and a naturally veutileted
alshough regression models did suggest R complaines building. They studied the rooms with the 1 complaint
were not independent of thermal paramesers. . I I and used area samples. Skov et d (1987) did demoo-
insensiry MES also associated L complaints. I strate a relationship betweea symptoms and both area -
mudies of * sick building ryndrome I cxamine ples measuring dust and - "macro-molecular" fraction. 1

humidification. irrespective of the

-

ade of the buildings. A

velociry and increased levels of respirable auspended par. a indoor air quality complaints.

diculases 3 dry-buld semperature. In regression

Several studies have attempted to identify the actual

I exposures simultaneously and inctude prycho- la area I

L measures a idenaify prediciors of complaints in

Area samples is buildings may not be representative of
a exposures la different points in single rooms. Physical
characteristics such a windows and partitions, computers,
and shelving may infuence air currents. Radiant I may

indoor spaces.
INTRODUCTION

Complaints sermed the d building ryndrome" bave lead OI unevea distribution of pollutants. Finally, moet pol-
led to numerous investigations in the last is years. a are hutants resuh from point souroes, a they will be diluted a a
thought to occur primarily in newty constructed - I subject .a farther removed from the source. The micro 4
d and, at least in the past, were thought to be due 8 vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Nevertheles. a different exposure characteristics than the macro-caviroo-
# variety of causes have been identibed in specific settings. ment of a building. la addition. all applied occupational and
inchuding inadequate semperature and relative bumidity 8 environmental health research that attempes 01 relate dose lo
trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds beakb effects suffen from the problem that doee is penerally
and formaldehyde. microorganisms, enviroamental sobecco measured at several points in time I then extrapolated lo T
smoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decades
spent and contaminated air and boiler fumes, fibers released * most health effects are measured as a - 1 of
from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sampling
A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms Krus change not merely trom
et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri- day to day but from hour to hour, such a stratep must fail.
(Robertson et al. 1985) - unable os identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameten in the I
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (temper- eaviroament and set these characteristics in relation a a
ature), relative humidity. air velocity. formaldehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at a given point in i This
itive or negative ions berween several rooms . a building report presents results of a cross-sectional investigation of a
with patural and - building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using a seff-administered. linear analog.
where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge setf-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
E I - Amistam Profemor of Mediane and ol ladustrial 3 Environmental Heakh Scences at the Unrveruty of Pisburgh Schools
of Medicine and Publec Heahh. P. Celopy a Director. Enviroamental Health & Safery. Camepe-Mellon Univeruty. Pirtsburgh. PA.

(Kreiss and Hodpson 1964; Hodpson and Kreiss "(9961
marily to mechanical ventilation. The same proup of authors

results in greater than the difference la average samples, and
No investigations in * peer-reviewed literature I