NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A campalgn to woo Dade County teenagers away from smoking la under way bere as part of a nation-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groupe, the society hopes 9 persuade a large pro- portion of the nation's younk people that smoking may Jead a cancer. a Key wrapon la the : m- a paign, la a nim strip detalling thr rav against tobacen, It I already I shows te a a enth graders In 1s schools $ educational telesinion, and will a breadeant tn minth Krade arlence students la the apring. The seventh-grade directed à teacher Bil program, Evans, inchuded a panel discussion 5 which students directed ques. tiona at Dr. Francia N. Cooke, representing the society. Teachers I have talked to agree that although amoking la not a serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu. dents are approsching the age when the problem will be, faced," Krane sald. Mata value a the nimstripe d thas = gives studenta - logleal argument with whleh ithey eenld retue a . ! - e when enrauraged by th atrele et frienda," ha I a Aim atrip de also being ahmun "live to senior bis h achoola in the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October 9, 1960
Education Cuts Youth
- Fag M through a teenage at the Lagu. Mar Hotel I doaur
* A
Habits program .A the high schools.
American eigaret moking ean x reduced R k cent These statistics were presenled Saturday a Walter G. ! director of publie educalion for the American Cancer Society, here for the Florida Division, ACS, annual meeting I said the t I program was directed at leenagers as - I fer "curbing I becsue d the soclety's eeeviction that snoking 1 a I al fatal lung a proepects of reducing cigaret moking b one-fifth were Abnn in a pilot program conducted qua m,000 high achool atudents at Purtiand, Ore, 1 1 I di a Bodents I perents I wne most lukely S 1 Smoking increased in 4 successive high school prades. Among boys participhting in the Oregon arvey, 14.3 pes eent paxous as freshmen, 15.1 per eent a sopbemores, 31.1 per eent as juniars, end ss. : I A correspond ing figures for girt stodents were 4s per cent, 10.6 per cent, - or the students, iss per cent of a boys smoked regularty e least enre a 1 a did 11.4 per cent al the girts 4 Education programs against smoking reduced the mumber ol new umokers angong boys from a per ceit de 1.7 & cent, and beginning girl mokers from M a 1.r PROGRAM ETFECTIVE Jamee mid & figures projected E a four-ygar periad indicaled that R per eent de high school spupmy could 8 deterred from amoking through the ACS educational program: The stody, a 1 pegraas that the moet affactive approach was in showing P leng term aifect d smoking. leaving the decision a the I + Least ellective, he related E the simple instruction not a I Aa part * a anti-smoling education program, a a has I a Aim drip Thatrating alfecta A r E for acreming a det achool classroons.
aesume & Hgaret dabit:
-
E per cent and M3 per sent.
per cent,
:
à MULLEN eecolo 6> x
