)
100 East End Avanue Ncw York, New York 10028 Telophone (212) C28-6300
American Health Foundation
BOARS OFFICERS CF AND TAUSTEES David J. Mahoney, Chairman President Nonan Simon, Inc. Emest L. Wynder, M.D., President Thomas d. Ross, Jr., Sacretary Vice President Amarican Airlines, Ins. Warner o Cosgrave, 4 Treasurer Partner Manasing Shieics Company Trustecs: Louis > Aronson, = Prasident Ronson Corporation Mrs. Chanes A. Dana Froderie C. Dacker Dacker Presicent Communicatiens, Inc. Walter Senior Panner E. Hanson Peat, Marwick, Mitchell a Ca. George James, M.D. Dean The auners Sinal Schoot of Medicine William - Levin Chairman ot the Soard Levit Y Sons, Ine. Wiliam Mcore cas cent Fielderes: Milis,ine. Jesesh M Mursha President Sandgran s Murha, Inc. Robart R. Pauley Maxwall M. Rabb Partner Stroock & Stroack a Lavan Erecutive David L Davies. Vise Presidant Javits e Javits Genoral Counset
July 7, 1970
G. F. Todd, Esq. Tobacco Research Council Glen House, Stag Place London, S.W.1 England
Dear Mr. Todd:
In recent talks with Dr. Carl G. Baker, Director of the National Cancer Ins stitute, the desirability of forming an international study group concerned with research into tobacco and health problems was discussed. This letter is to invite you on behalf of your organization to participate in this The proceedings will aim at providing the relatively few active investigators in tobacco and health research programs with an opportunity to discuss freely current and future research programs with the intent of reaching common objectives nore quickly. will be composed of investigators primarily Thvoived in tobacco and health research oriented towards producing less harmful smoking products. The partici- pan ts mus t be both willing and able to share with other investigators what is being learned from their current activities and openly discuss plans for future research in the field. It is thought that by bringing such a group of experts toget ther to review ongoing studies and to plan future investigations jointly less harmful tobacco products will be available sooner and COS tly research projects will not be duplicated unneces- sarily. The meetings would be held at yearly intervals with the different organizations acting as host.
informa tion and study group.
The
