H KU2223022

Life Seiences Vol. 15. PP. 1291-1300
Printed in the V-S.A.

Perganon Press

NETAROLISM b BENZO(a) PYRT BY KICBosours - RON
TISNUES b PRECOLANT AND TITAL MAMNTERE
Irene T. Mang, Ronald a Ra smunsen, and : Timothy Crockert
Cancer Research Institute, Univeraity of California, 3 Prancisco, and Depart-
ment of community and muiron ent Medieine, Univereity of California, Irvine*.
(Received in final form 26 August 1974)
Sumary
Pretrestment of hansters with benzo ta)pyrene (Bar) vrestly incressed
the si vitre netaboliam of 3 by lung alerosonns from prognant I
atare, a 3 leve effect on the metabolim of BaP by I adere-
momes. The produetion of various metaholites of Bar b lung adere-
I MAF increaned to different axtenta: 3-hydroxy-mar (3-CH-BaP)
was ene : the najor matabolites E netabolic yielde of :
awg-Sxoxplutpoxplerp (9,10-diol) and 7,0-diol vexe incrensed tore
than that of P 4,5-diel. In the I of 1iver nierosomes, only the
yielde of 9,10-dioi and 7,8-diol vere increased ovar the eontrel
leveis, The presence of cyclohexene oxide a the incubation E
tures decreased the production of the diole. Basal-level enryme
activitier in placental fetal I and fetal ak in aicrosones in
metabolizine Mp vere very low. Pretrentment of pregmant hainaters
with : indaced BaP-netabolizing enzymes in fetal tierue I fold.
Bense (alpyrene (Dar) ie . carcinogen and anvironmental contaninant that in
found In eoal car, mineral oll, car exhaust, totacce snoke, moked foode, ete.
(1). In vitro sraties shoved that netabolie activation of € ia required for
ita intaraction with proteine and nuclele acide (2,3). Rarller studien with
rat livar preparations :4,5) and hamater liver mierosomer (6,7) shoved that Bar
le metahelised minly 8 phenolie and dihydrodihyfroxy (diel) derivatives, and
S quinones - are ensynatie or air oxidation producte & mstable phenolic
metabolitas (4,51 : vell an some unidentified mora polar metabolites, The
metabolien of Rat has generally been neamured b the production of 3-hydroxy-
2 (1-08- which ie often one of the major metatolites in vitro (31. 3-0H-
DaP *1 tonie 8 evitured eelle (9), hut it shown vary 11etle interaction wi th
DNA in vitro (6) 3 has not been shown 3 3 carsinogenic. & the other hand,
K-regton epowides of related polycyelie aronatic hytrocartone (PAN)bind to cell-

129!