LOS ANGELES TI:ES
Los Angeles, Californio
October 20, 1954
E heen proved,
lale 1'niversity

hairil upon the premise that hination n' a particular type
nection hetween rica in each of "he three rategorics
smoking and disease ha: has alrcady produced 'a safe
Might Take Six Months one 1 is. so all can be made
Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. 11 not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Clarrnce Cnok T.itie,
compiete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad.
date, said that "some say we visnrv board and scient-fic di.
should wait for more defini rector o: the Tobarro Indus-
ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would
nne has said just what the de produre some nf "the defni-
finitive evidence waid be." iive eviderre' tn weich Dr
* sad he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In hie Talk 1n the Ameriran "We wiil tackle
system was more important, line of the

Calls
Safe
Cigarettes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
la Overwhelming

cigarette os seientific re-
search should prove which
should find
"since
one,
peo-
ple like to smoke eigarettes.
try Research Committee, de-
seribed the mutlines nt stud-
Tackle Unknewns
research
industry's
program "We seek definitive

Expert
for

atatistician

tive evidence before develop-

NEW YORK Ort. 61 (ILP) this iewnoint

The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Societs meeting. Dr eously many of the unknowes simultan
arette smoking with b 0 - h Hammond said the relation- in this field of tobaccn use in
lung cancer and heirt dis. ship of rigare:te smoking to relation to human health. he
ease is "overw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out-
once about developing "a safe health. than the relationship findings in an area where
cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to much suggestive work has
cal scientist told the annual find a safe eigarette' from been done. The program nf
Tobacco Industry Research lehacen, there are varinus relationship hetween rrv rem.
Committee ansounced some of types R. fiters, and these are mental factors, includ in a
the details nf :ts seieatific re varinus terhn'ques n! curing The most

something should be done at from the standpoint of public

the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recognizes tha: we
prove surcessfal in six do not have todav the experi-
months, with iuck," he said menta! evidence that wi'l per-
ie toharen, he Raid, and it may aet was important precect

meeting cf the American might
Cancer Society today.
At the xame time the scien-
tific advisory board of the
srarch program 18 h

Outlines Deseribed
are
There various types of
he thar some fortuatous rom- up
LOS ANGELES EXAMINER
los Ange les, California
October 20, 1954

mit scientifie conclisions PA.
garding the raure and efert
smoking and lune cancer
a diree: scudy nf
current lung cancer rases a
10 medical centers im :he : 'ni
ed States and Canada.

It will Inelude numerous
studies of humans, including
emotional habits of smokera,
an well as tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. The apecirio research
grants, financed Aq the TIRC,
will be announced later.

HEALTHSTUDY
NO TOBACCO
NEW YORK, Oct. 19. -
A broad sbx-point study seek
Ing knowledge whether eigareta
or other torms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health haz.
ards was announced today.
It is the first announcement
of a big research program
headed Aq the selentifie ad.
visory board a the Tobacco In
dustry Research Committee

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062