STRICKMANFILTER WINS 2D CONTRAGT Another Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs to Uselt By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's APali Mall of Canada, "PIT the second-larg- est cigarette sompany in that country, contracted yesterday with the Strickmainkoundation to pay a penny a pack royalty for use of the filter invented by Robert "7 Strickman. The company, which is 50 per cent British-owned, but Canadian-managed, sells 12 bil- lion cigarettes a year, very few of them in the United States. The agreement was the second In two days with the founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company. with annual salcs of more than 8! billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. Strickman, was surrendering its rights to the filter to the foundation. The university said it had "made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering a highly con- troveisial und competitive com- mercial field. - Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financlal stake in the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to it last summer by Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set dn on Wednesday by the New Jersey chemist as à charitable institution o). ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has received $200,000 in advance royalties. According to Robert > Katz, the unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts cauld eventually bring -tn about $5 million a yearin royalties. Mr. Katz, a Jawyer who. Is secretary of Seagram's Distil- leries, said that Rothman's Pall nfall of Canada hed been test- ing the. Strickman filtor since last August. Wilmat Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman's s said of the device: a "We are sntisfied that nothing exists tor Y which gives comparclle filtration without adveredy affecting the flavor of the cigarette. : takes out 'more padsns ele- ments withia tiie cuniext of ac- ceptable flavor, we feel that as cigarette company shnuld trv -
New York Times March 1, 1968 Page 34
1
a
M Claims Are Disputed The claim that the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ing cigarette flavor has boen la subject of controversy. Among the most outspoken critics of the filter has beenle Scnator Warren G. Magnuson or Washington, who has con- tended that its claims have been Breatly exaggerated. NnouL, many governmental and privale health reports byl experts have called cigarette tar and niçotine health hazards, Columbia Univarsity, in a re- port on the Shickman filter made public an Wednesday, avoided making ahy conclu- So far no United States ciga- rette companies are beliaved 01 be close to a contract fox the filter. Experts say that domes- tic companies need not fèar competion in this country from the Canadien cigarettes because of a 15-cent import duty on each package. Pall Mall cigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana-! dian concern.
sions.
rescarch.
Re a
