True-Tal Ine Questlons 8 the Chenistry and Psychophyslology of Odor end Flevor 1. T - Sone nodern workers suggeat that nccurnte mensurenant of vibratlonal frequency (in the far Intrared, for exanple) of an unknown odorant will permit prediction of its quallty and intensity. T No elenentel substance, not even he lides or ozone hes eny odor; Instead they react with the nucosa forning new products which are smelled; but T Sone odorants have sterlc or vihratlonal propert les which force the cone luslon that they are odor less whon they are not. 11, T Present evidence strongly suggests thet al fferent parts of the ol factory receptor ares, Ilke tho retina In the eye, are Que ilty-specific. T Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor T No one yet has a fire clue as to the critical reletion between the molecule nnd the receptor which permits an odor perception. 7 The greater the secretion rate of mucous or sallve, the higher their pH, and both ptl and temperature influence the quality of sensation in the 111. T The ideat Instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sane quantitative range as does an anima or human subject. T Such an Ideet detector has not been developed.
sone elements possess taste.
surf face In order to be smelled,
chemical senses.
2
Ihman observers with head In fixed position can by virtue of the two Independent nostriis easily discern stereo sue 11 effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier an odorant Is at the right or left hand, much os one uses nis two ears in locat Ing the source of a sound, - For certaln musk- Ike compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger a hunon olfact ory response v. - Adaptation to one olfactory qunlity does not significant ly reduce sensitivity to any other dissimi lar quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all sinllor Qual lities. T F By enploying a almileritios nethod of compering qualitles, one con now obtain ident Ity and degroes of difference without recour se to irouble- vi. T Hunger lowers thresholds stightly to some food qua 11ties but not for T It is now possible to Ident Ify the intensity and quality of a certain given stimull simply by expert examination of the electrophysiologicel record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons. T Electrical stimulat lon of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a "netallic" or "alkalind" quality, T Direct electrical stimuletlon of the olfactory senso has never yet beon successfully accompilshed. VII. T Although total anosala is rare In humons and ageusia even rarer, there is evidence that In analogy to color vision deficiences, sone people are Insensit tive to (only certein) qualities whi le having normal sensitivity to others. T Toplca anesthetics applled to the tongue show that different quelities 1 Certaln endocrine dlsense entitles make It possible for sone people quite sensitively to "smell" such "odor less substances es sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to normal by manipulation of endocr Ine levels. a enenopause wonen at the time of ovulation find certain odors extrenely disagreeable whlle at other tines In the menstrunt cycle these same odors
sone words. others.
of taste disappear at different rates.
they wu judge quite pleasant,
OK A
