ME
PKU

vul 15 ma 13 re.2721-2725

Carcinogenesis

rool

Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke
carcinogens aupueing-I-(IAPIsesoaspuisupaux and
benzola)pyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of

3 420

chemopreventive agents

Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin
Amencan Heaith Foundation, Valhalla NY 10595, USA

models examined e date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class
of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco
smoke (I). We have chosen the A/J mouse because previous

The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce
model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against Jung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced
lung cancer In smokers. Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to
by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1 1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butane (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined
and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated.
individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg
were treated by either intragastric gavage (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a aumber of
intraperitoneal injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP,
and/or Bap for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and7.12-dimethylbenzialanthracene (9,10).
either 6 or 61 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse OI evaluate the effects of
forestomach were counted. The -31 route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK
proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4.11.12). Results obtained with the Al) mouse can be replicated
because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate
theinjection site and associated mortality. A dose e-response (PEITC) la an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by
relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK UE both the A/J mouse and F344 rat (11.13)
mice killed 9 or 10 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single
treatment. The highest total doses ofNNK and BaP a total carcinogens This may nou 8 realistic with respect 01 tobacco
of24 jumol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (I). The
have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important
Comparisons of NNK and RaP given individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (1).
when given by the i.g. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either
were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP.
The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to
evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during
dose of 24 jumol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and
subdoses i.g., with sacrifice 6 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we examined tumor yields obtained
dosing. This regimen induced 10.524.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for
mouse. > combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen. 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61
ethylisothiocyanate. given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a
and BaP, sem found to be an effective inhibitor of lung prelimiaary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC
tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP.
this study provide a convenlent model for assessing the NNK was synthesized in the American Health Foundation Organie Synchesis
efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. Its purity was established by HPLC as >997 Bap (98% purity),
Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were
could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirt containing 5% com oil, as previously
play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups cf 15 as sammarized in Table 1. At age 7 weeks. each mouse was
kers: 4<(matiylitrossmino)i-3-syridyt-1-butane (NNK") treated b intraperitoneal (ip.) injection or by intragastric gavage lig) with
and benzofalpyrene (BaP) (1) NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical in 0.1 mi cononseed oil. NNK and BaP were both
carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in the 0.1 ml uned for treatment Injections and gavages were carried
*Abbrovintions: NNK. 4-(methylnitrossmina) 1-(3-pyrldyly- 1-butunane: individuat dose was one-eighth of the rotal. Equimolar dours of NNK and -
aaP, benzolp)pyrena: PEITC, phenethyl isothiocyanaic BITC, benzyl BaP were used le most of the combination groups, because the amounts of

which these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given

The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively

of NNK and BaP U! combination was established in the
that Bal was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK

Most previous studies in the A/) mouse have examined

We sought 2 develop a model which could be used to

5.9= 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse e v 0.001) and completely
induction by tobacco smoke carcinogens.

inhibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods

BITC S86) purity) and PEITC (985 purity) were abtained from the Aldrich
Chemical Company (Milwaukee, WI). Cottonseed oll was purchased from
Female AJJ mice, age 5 werks, were obtained from The Jackson Kaouvoger
(Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the
The desiga of the bioassay is illustrated l' Figure 1. The mice were
out for 8 consecutive weeks. The total doses are given in Tuble L Each
NNK and total carcinogenie polycyelic hydrocarbons in tobacco smake are

Sigma Chemical Co (Si Louis, MO).

Introduction
5,

agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).

divided

isothiocyanaie, ip intriperitoncal; is, introgastric gavage.

o Onford Unvenity Press

2721