A a
- . a 31 Cigarettes > a a AN xe E Pot a a a * à Interestin AY a TONE TOBACCO company NEW YORK (AP - Ciga- * official noted that the staff rette manufacturers Tuesday & recommendation was say chey have * in report marijuana for per- diversifying to paxs mari- legalize 18 of opes over age juana, despite - report suoR years market of the National Commission Twhile the. biggest Causes Preventlon might be a lower age brack- on the and MARRANASSISA - ol Violence Maich Zrecom- ruet. of Nat"Mary Jane sort R goes mends legalization "pot" the youngsters," com- for adults. quake Sam Fouts, advertis- "No, no no,tno, DO * hàs Suga emented manager for Larus Bros. been a rumor for pan: last g & Co., o Ricbmond, Va. years and R gave E. cadse 'Mary Jane is an old nick- 03 check * a a thoroughty pame for marijuana but -uas There is no abproach to - erally has fallen Into disuse industry, among the young. * 3 William Kloeple of the To: 1 Fouts, noting that mari- juana la "still a rather taboo in the cigarette à month topic" emphasized that his goes by thatsome segmént. of a dustry, "wouldn't touch it
Makers - Claim
anywhere: bacco Institate, lared. A 383HL, ISN th e underground press doesn't carry a story about at all." how tobacco companies arei gearing $ for the marijuana trade," added: James Bolling. vice president and assistant chairman a - Philip Morris, a a - PH pres that. while this type of speculation "was uncer- "algepuns me tobacco com- panies aré publicly beld and under strict goverriment con- trol; no one can evea rémote-, A become loyolved because at: the present time mari- juana is illegal." 1545 * de There have been persistent stories that tobaccoo com- panies already have regis- te re d às possible brand names trademarks that in- clude some of the current ve- A a c ula d associated with marijuana, and that 'they have been buying up huge tracts ol land in Mexico on which to harvest marijuana. 1 wwvisererus a "WE'RE NOT filing for trademark names like Aca- pulco Gold' or buying land south of the border, com mented, Jnbr t 1518 M + 5 L a a a - a a I
company
Inc.
1002615950
