Polluted Late
by Samuel S. Epstein The auhor surveys the record of indust ari-generated data Eualang enden e shuns 2 comstrams un data- from gluns madequa , biased muerpretation ma mpulatam, suppressmm and a le outright de. Ntm Inm-ate commompla e espevialls when prohtable in hnolugirs are mehed. Alarmingh. suh enden e - jushes strong resenations as 01 the abdus of Mr dana developed by institunons ur inde aluals nhunr eomumin intetests are dureith or Information a the muens of C commis and pulan al pumer Bruson-making al all lesels of gm. ermment saukdmant the analalsints of a buds of in- formation, SMI the lann ol - his h the relaine merits al ahernate poln w an he mah red and sunsidered. If thn mlun matam et data base .f tat nushed ur imal xl. then nhatest de nams and teas hed saus abube salan a an alul, threatenng the laben of deme à mershel Imang tall of all beneht and TIsk $ on nhn in nust tegulaters des BANS ate hased. frem ihe mulures thennehes bemg ed Theve duta ate either generated and mterpreted turs and unsersane unden coms. * le mdusus
mehes th alle ted
Miri gormment tomes
- - au . ar a a Mente,
tegulat.
Buli into thn prenes H d sadre of sonsulanis. maitunes, whuse stamp ol appr.nal pronides the
In m-bune 1 wrutate stall an In ommerts al lalana genetalh from presigunes unnerues or reseanh ln-bung wenth sall : nut mmmune to son dana anh an addumal manile of authority The a ann and sule ona aus presures from tesearsh identes of theve sonsultanas dte often hidden not and deschpement and mar kemg departments. ans unh from the publu bun alu from ther onn unner un les hunn thent produn et jin ew mtn um MIE et insinutens Themduurul merests of thew unh ter commets sal labun. atours and unnersmes en nher astsoers and expen tommittees thev SH. walesut Imh lung hus 1 - ulu ned en the upen in il deu hul ane usualh mamtained m onhdenmal market, a pia IN a hardh umsuent with the ethn be let's lauk al d les tane hnter in diav n from : antta 4 th alus not mmme ter ungsken preaurs Comstrann IN thr Girnnatum el Dele and man pushn mfen matan a met pretatons The mest sommen problem anh mdustrally gen soante a a uh ha ane pruened as she mtrirsal etated data i a pau quales Deeph - an emed In muluun ern thugh thn lumed thr madegun ed dana sulummed in 1967 le she mate hkeh - refint shen arm, tat- I and Dhng Admamstration (F FDAI In indusurs Sument - * paten a mel toten d metapatomal anden Hemmen fewd addeme petams a ngmally submumed le she al 1 : al ihe f et i Heud a unetah e In. Foud and Dug Admmstatum hne hern ine an
4 lased the to agens N's
-
mans Indusnul amma in al mualh an anded 5 umsuhants ate ethet nAN
ofsompentn arapmalon the comn mg petepuaam p en than kugarm, mtetrus sus Medmal - a Ang Ihn jaft a Suena a ha Su I Hutt . il manh hn Im : 1 demmenting hr postut In
the fuld el IXI uputamal land enarmmental san en
Ihe ona tes rager fon the awand e funur
and salues ol haut addane m suppons petitioms havr mal : phe a : : - a a hathre alepatch Hen reparsted . - Le G.
then Commus shu suppassed regula and therfen hne tramed suhe.
sinner Heshent Le complamed Aluant hall of the
