Genetic Epidemiology 5:265-275 (1988)
Estimating Genetic Parameters of Survival Distributions: A Multifactorial Model
Joanne M. Meyer and Lindon J. Eaves
Department of Human Genetics, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond For: , number of genetically influenced illnesses. age ofonset is correlated between relatives. in some cases, age of onset also serves as an index of an individual's inherited liabiliry 10 ue illness. Typically, survival models for age of onset distri- butions do not allow for these effects. We have used the gamma distribution as the basis of a model which specifies genetic variability in age of onset. Specifically, we aliow the hazard frequency parameter of the gamma distribution o be a under various gamma models indicale that age of onset correlations may be strikingly different from correlations in liabiliry. Maximum likelihood estimation procedures were used le obtain parameter estimates from simulated data sets and OI determine whether it is possible lo discriminate between gamma processes of different order. The resulu for 1,000 pairs of twins (500 monozygotic and 500 dirygotic) gave parameter estimates that were fairly accurate but that decreased in precision as the order of the gamma process increased. We discuss the effect chis may have uo inferences made about age of onset. Key words: age of onset correlations, survival models. gamma distribution
monotonic function of an individual in inherited
is an illness. liability
toumto
Simulations
INTRODUCTION
Genetic analyses of illnesses and behaviors showing a variable age of onset require a knowledge of the cumulative probability of onset by given ages. Some approaches [Weinberg, 1915; Stromgren, 1938; Risch, 1983) derive this probability from prior age of onset distributions. Others (Elston, 1973; Heimbuch et al., 1980; Risch, 1983] estimate parameters of a cumulative age of onset distribution from the data. When the data allow its use, the latter method is more appealing since specific
Received for publication January 11, 1988; revision accepied Aprili22, 1988.
Address reprint request de Joanne Meyer, Department of Human Geneties, Box 33 Medical College of
Virginia, Richmand, VA 23298. @ 1988 Alan R. Liss, Inc.
