C.
saluls
SHT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira Nr York Times Serier
wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotioo about 80 New Taiwan dollars a
made cigarettes last year, ringing became a issue even in recent
(S2.86) compared with 22 panies g advertise on TY after
TAIPEI The Marlboro cow- up sales of $119 million. In 1986, trade talks between the United 114 Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for a boy in his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- States and Taiwan Wang Chien. pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghing from his mouth, has come le eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly is shieag. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis SOwn. His picture adoms kiosks peroeni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered R ing is Japan are more liberal. Com- guitar-playing. jeans-clad promot- Indoed, Asian sales accountod give out oros cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign Teievision This frenetic, fast-groming 0A- cigarette exporis last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawod in the United Sates in 1971. tioe of nearly 20 million peopie ly because both Taiwan and Japan school students - 12, years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-standing restrictions. are DOM smoking How can e and Taiwan must carry a label that, mbstantial number of them were Hamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? It's O.K. W have cigarelies them sake of health, don't smoke loo made in America, not Taiwan. IT American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" - a waming much milder To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year, re- joy a $16 billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in si billion in new sales. the United States. But those people mandated in the United States. Wacturers have essentially intro- In Japan, which has . population are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe companies say Amencan duced cigarette advertising to the of 120 million and where poople "urus - human being, you woo't do cigarettes are selling wellin Taiwan
And mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
out this city, next to posters of a peroeni. er of Winston cigarettes.
"They to amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and arc now conducting
for most of the growth in American g said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-
Year and for the first time, a According lo the Brown & Wil. rette companics promote
roughly transiated, says, "For the
ialand, and that has created . furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year. that. Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled ing teen-agers e take dn moking. more than lo perceat last operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992. .prossure from Washingion. In the alcohol. # cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw Shau-kong a ufacturers at - time whea sales in and the Unitod States are way down laws is way up. According the U.S. 01
not RO much because of the adver. manufactur- tising as because they are of better thing wtong with the way they are dgaretter are made of blended to bacco and have less tar than Tai- producta and theu say wascse cigarettos which are not
American cigarette year, their
tbe American botly deny.
the past year. The market share 85 from 3 percent S 1986, and thej promoting
companies of entic- American cigarettes increased 6 E vigorously deny there in any- quality and taste beiter. American
a charge the American companies tised, altbough it does DOW,
Department of Agriculture pro- ihry have no pians lo change American pressure a open their have they pusbed sodo so, they say.
bleoded.
The goverament-administered dicts that it could grow lo 15 8. 20 sales pitch.
Tbey are not allowed to advertise la small stores where cigarettes are tions. Cigarette manulacturers may
the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials say tbey resent 00 television or ig newspapert Nor The government agreed to allow markets de producta that endanger They can advertise only througb otbers into the business oaly under people's health. like cigarettes and posiers hung near cigaretie racks or year since stiff restrictions on for. "This really burts our feelings, sold, as well as through promo- .a American cigarettes in Taiwan A.. tbe United Sustes docs legisiator. not en- alao place 120 ada a year in - have soared, generating much- courage its poople lo amoke, why zines, cach of whose drculation acl. peadod prowth for American man- axport 10 Taiwan? Younger people |dom exooods 200,000. and tbe aumber of anti-smoking causc of American ada. They hire rettos accountod for leas than - mbat ol Agriculture, poople B Tal. difficult for Sunak boys to resisi, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed to sell
females are smoking a lot be Before last yoar, forcign ciga- young altractive 19-yoar-old girla oent of the market Taiwan Suyran short skirts 01 sive ing cig. posed strict quotas on Depart- arettes froe in nightclube. k's 1 cigarettes, banned imports at E and then it becomos a habit. It's cigarettes and imposed stif tariffs.
84 forciga
immoral."
È rosult imported aigaretie cost
+/S000SZ )/
