00
NEW. YORK POST, FRIDAY, MAY- "ZI 196661 ISOANHOAMEIN Ancevaca oldes contiononsly pretished dairy mewspuper
Anti-smoking skulduggery Imagine this soenario: A scientist who leading claims to have discovered that cigarette Scruggs opponents. insists he didn't smoking poses no danger 3 human uments. health E about to testify on behalf of the enterod Perhaps the tobacco industry. Suddenly it's revealed same lawyers have bought the re-
not, "buy" any doc- But unless he has banking business, it is un- how are reasonable people to blower: He also represented former legal fees in the event Brown & pay Wigand's legal costa pmoo be inter- and Meanwhile, the anti-tobacco forces also timony he had given os the Food and tinely measures and adjusts nicotine lev- (The FDA hoped to use this "evidence" to justify regulating tobacco as when the subject of ethics clear thàt
that he is secretly receiving a salary from clear liams why Scruggs pmom provide Wil- tobacco lawyers. It also emerges that the Moreover, with such substantial "loans." searcher a house and have co-signed two interpret Williams' LArupes, car loans for him. In his defense, the 8 This is not the first time Scruggs has entist insists that, except for the salary, been involved with a subsidized whistle- Question: How would the media likely Brown & Williamson executive Jeffrey react? A huge brouhaha to say the Wigand. latter's CBS News promised to pay the The scientist's research, whatever ita Williamson sued Wigand for breaching actual merits, would be buried under a his contract's confidentiality clause dur- mudslide of derision. The tobacco indus- ing a widely reported appeàrance on 09, BS grounds for attempting to buy a wit- CBS lawyers, fearing that the offer to Now let's change a few details. Say the preted as an inducement 8 break the seientist la a "whistleblower" who asserts contract, initially scotched the that the tobacco industry is fully aware After the substance of Wigand's segment. charges that cigarette smoking E: lethal and has hit the newspapers, his interview was worked t conceal this fact for decades eventually aired. "loans, rather than working for to- suffered an embarrassment when a for- There you have the chain of events that Drug Administration (FDA). actually unfolded recently in a Louisville, Jerome Rivers, a former manufacturing Ky., courtroom. Yet the near-silence sur- supervisor for the conglomerate, with- rounding the incident has been deafen- dréw his claim that Philip Morris rou- a law firm représenting Brown paralegal & Wil- for Critics drug.) incessantly liamson Tobacco Corp., received a industry ns amoral, portray even the tobacco ita rewards. $109,000 mortgage and other financial "crime" consists in selling a though legal Williams had made internal uct that millions of corporate documents available to attor- After these shenanigans, Americans it is enjoy. His benefactor was lawyer Richard some of tobacco's foes would comes do well 'dn' to Scruggs one of the tobacco industry's take a careful look in the mirror.
it's all just a loan. least. ness.
would be roundly condemned on ethi- Minutes.
The lawyers providing the bacco industry, are in fact the campaign against it. ingsa
mer Philip Morris
malarcine spearheading
employee recanted tes-
Today, one of the few run the story on Page One, reported Merreli "sururgn a former neys suing the tobacco companies.
els. to a paperthat
prod-
