WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRIBUNE
D. 25,605
S. 49,326
WACO METROPOUTAN AREA
MAR S i963

F.C Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard-- Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission froni going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it
does not sccm right or logical that onc medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer w hile
newspapers, magazines, billboards and C ounte CT
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expectod 10 review the FCC proposal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
Junç 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
worning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC said it is proposing to refuse Jicenses
os broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising
because of evidence that smoking is injurioun s hoalth
and the FCC has an obligation 10 protect the public
interest. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals 07 do
as they please so long as ihcy doa't harm another.
It also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that if nok don't mention something, maybe it won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democrat, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Con-
merce Con.mitice, said in reference 10 the proposed
FCC rule that the agency had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has
any right to tell an advertiser what he could not
say in his advertisements. Rogers said Congress will
take a cluse Icok at the whole question of regulations
on television and radio advortising content, not only
as to the Federal Communications Commission but
in regard to Tiederal Trade Commission practices as
The stakes involved extend beyond the business
of broadcasling. They 08 to the heart of whether
government burcaus should he allowed to go beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Health.

hurt you and will disappear.

well.
7

tho limits of due process and the Jaw,