996
- Dal
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richard L. Nacye, MD, and Woodrow S. may vary in incidence and Somerect Counties of eentral pneumuconiosis were nined anthracite roal. Survey eon-
Findings Dollinger, MS rank, low-volatile cost In Cambrin and rykania. l'ean- Nonc of the men hnd ever tucted between 1902 und 1955 hy the Pennsylvanin INportmeat of Miner : Mineral Industries skowed an a verage coal dunt expoaure jer werk- ing rhift of 11,TU,URN eale fout of uir fur bituminess parisles per work- silica cuntent of cunl d. Jut in low la all arenn of . neklom helng greater Penneyina itan 3.. However, the mine durt conteatra. t: in of free ailica In grester far none u nderground wurkets puch as nof allachearing d The TT casen palverin rand, selerted ma te keated authera, rinited Kalaane fike ley rach of fy ven pirpose R -neral huspital, and read of man yrara age - di-d parumorninsis. L twern 19GU aul Ithis, la tu determine if parn- fe: rasen alarted with The hatch the patimin descriptiuns of the lungs. When was any mention of E .stve pi,ement, parenchymal neduls , nl- or any histury of mining. the fin ti. nt'a clinical chart was I'h. eran.ind, data were ente A et a as ineludal In the. rtudy unly espuarare 2 : in specin. minra 3 1-an jweile restine wasnhtained. (1tran.'. a Pa mocnninses Nu e A Delle , 2:3 027050
Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one pationt to another. In found to correlate well with quantitative. measurements of (1) the volume of nodules, and (2) the silica macules and nodules. Unfertunately, recognition of cmphysema and chronic appear to be most closoty correlated with miners with no rocntgenographic emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspnea in with silica and collagen. Trom 103 to 4G2 of Appuluchian chitis and coal workers have rorntgeno lur, graphie evidence of symptoms, and physical findinga have bern diliralt to make, workers' pneumeconiosis ("black lung") is not but a composite uf multiple disorders, and severity, dupendent gruphie aren, exurt ocrupational à posure, and apparent individual sus- ceptibility." These multiple dis. Fem thy hopann ni 4 Pat-2 51 due & Uniser Kull t 4 * hun. Hrdry. Krptom i r M4 H.r a > Sial nerrls Cralst. Hesay, 4 Hou (be I JAMA, Apral 10, 1972 . Vol 220, No 2
process but a a study of 77 miners of postmortem anatornic pulmonory dust macules and content collagen of dust there vas poor rocntgenepraphic cor pulmonale, tle tnu disdrciers A évidence of pneumoconiosis had addition lo dust macules
bituminous
coal, roentgenographic categorics for
(silicon dioxide) )and
which
dyspnea mumber of ers, The fiee
hronchiolitis;(.I) centriluhu- Ir Jters and eledrie Inx panlolular, and paracleataicial a "-ra who drill into onntive oper. to make di-epve prirerses tl rough a search uf influences na the ruentgen- t Irr than a workers withent ansuriuted Tir a ere abnormalities Patients Studiod and Methods frum Penns hania and West Vir-
meconlonia, hut E relations belween pneu- emphysema: und (3) tuberruluilin and r.k or encounter
such reentgenugraphic abnormalitics, arusionally othr di : precesses. early stages." Theau eepecinlly in tions to disability." h is the
There sepurate appear ographic features of sone upon Rro enigenographic
difering reita ilu.
whn
dificulties prob of the current a single disense pron es Another aim
ably arie from the faet that roal individoal sumly tn evaluate thir de :ay protorul thnt lavohed every a aU-
each of which nay vary in inridenre moconiunis with disalility - in Ri-ts"
ordes. indude(lithe primary eonl dust Patients- The patients Werr - un ar - information Hanty Medical C nist Pens.hunis State lew-rank high-volatib qual in rumties gr unel
maculu; (2) silicariss (3) chrunic lann- dergruand miners of hituminoua enal li. and uthr enterning nopa
ginia. of santhweatern
Thir:y-ane had alwaya mined nf treupational l'enns Jrania ur in tu: 'irmed hy a F north-rn H', Vir,in.ia Tl.- # mail and
other 46 haut alway, mine d highrr in mation Irdeplame tim i. ints ing
PUBLICATIONS
10346287
