HKB2228112
SASTA BANBARA SAN14 -

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
a - : IA. a : and :
7 : a = VITMI 2
IAPARTME 7 : 3 time
January 3, 1977
Dr. William H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Research roundation
715 Muir Lands Vista May
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. fishman:
and Salk.

: - le 3 11 : IM b

a
-
1A : MITORNA :

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolia rescarch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the la Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes
should fit in well with ongo ing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnrent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental
prublems is particularly ieely. It will be o! o:at potential inportance for
pulling tegetter wort. by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation,
characteriztaion and doterniniation of the sionificance of hunan oncodevelcpmental
antigens such as alphafeteproteir and carcinuenbryonic antigens.
One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship
of increased serusa concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinoger
exposure in humans. Our studies on rats and nouse model svsters clearly derion-
strate tne 1 anirals pasouxa to hepatocarcinouens have elevated serum AFP concen-
trations priur to developrant of malionant tmers. It is hoped that systere tic
study of human scra frum differect ourrces will determing if serum AFF concun-
In addition, the role of env irumental fac tors such as hormonal influences on
the production of oncodevelopseut.tal gene pr-hais can be further explored in
different sy: tens. Such data implies thal (he prod;u tion of ohcodavelopmental
gene product, by tunor colls is net a fixed property of a given tumoir but is
We look foncard to working with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundat fon
in furthering research in the important subjert of ancodeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinosen exposure.

subject to enviroumesta controls.

expression.
Best regards,
Stewart Srll, M.D.
Professor
SS/nb