BOULDER DAILY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

a a A

Area stores

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For tha Delly Camera
nors.
kids.
ka;

referring to the increased enforce-
penally Tur selling tobaccotoa ml
tried to buy the cigarelles. The

mont.

Boulder police stung 11 busi-. Store clerks unlucky OFQanous
nesses this week during a crack. get'caught were issued asummons-
doun on selling cigarettes to ml. to appoar 51 court. 1 The maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve -horis 00ZS.R Tine.
of. the American Cancer Soclety's The eting involved two toams.
Great American Smokeout. was in- Each included u uniformed omcer.
tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain. ciothes omcer. and two
legal to sell tobacco producte to Fairviow High School sirts, who
Police targeted Kas stations, con: giris' parenis signed a waiver al:
venience, drug, grocery and dis. lowing Chemto Take partin thc.op
law has never been enforced, said The juvenlles wero told not to
Jopinog Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
"We're letting the stores know had to show identification.

'count stores. Until recently, the eratlon.
this io going to happen, ahc sald,

the cigareites, and, if asked, they
(Sce BOULDER, Page 3C)

Boulder police sting stores ,

-
:

for

sales

cigarette
(From Page (OT

to minors
The clerk at Colony Market,

At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began to cry
28uh Sty one of the girts asked when she was Astred sum-,
the cashler for a pack of Mart mons. ous cald a was a stur: a
boro Lights., Oficer Rob Hauke. dent and couldn't puone the
ness, In plain clothes, stood In tourt costs. Haukeness pou -21
-ita-hehinind her to witness thç 6818010 hér, saying she could:
A placard near the cash regis. the Distriet Attorney to do cam 2.
ter read, P.Iu ID my own mother. munity açrvice inatradof paying
No 'at No Sale, No Way." The the Ane,
clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clorks, not the store
The buyer produced lier ers ot manugers, have to pay the,
driver's license, which showed court costs.
she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l du it to
ed at the license, act it down on stores or clerks, she said. punish..
and sold her the though, when you pee clerks
Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Police targeted 15:
stepped dn and identified him Latores and cleu ks alailbur four
eelf as a police officer. Manka recelved summonses.
came In and wrote the clerk a Thie wock's
I bee chem ask for an year. Tha first sting, conducted.
E I think they're going to 2 in September, targeted 16 stores:
fuse the cale," Haukeness sald. and ST clerks received sum:

transaction.
cation.
counter.
the
cigarettes.
summons.
"When
"But they never do."

prubably work out a dealwith-

à
ownr,
"Al-:

ing, you might think otherwise. cry:
operation was the.
punas tobacco sale stine this

monses.