FF

Principal Investigator/Proaram Direcior (Last, first. middle).

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH
POSITION TITLE

Give the lollowing information for the key personnel and consuliants and collaborators. Begin with the principal

investicatorlprogran director. Photocopy this pago lor each person.

NAME

Constance Smith

Postdoctoral Fellow

EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or otter initial prolessional education, such as nursing. and include postdoctoral training.)

YEAR
CONFERRED
1986
1994

INSTITUTION AND LOCATION
Wesleyan University, Middletown, CT
University of California, Berkeley CA
Emory University School of Medicine

DEGREE
B.A.
Ph.D

FIELD OF STUDY
Biology
Molecular & Cell Biology

Postdoc 1994-present Anatomy & Cell Biology

RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Concluding with present position list, li chronological order, previous employment experience, and
honors. Key personnel include the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the project.
Key personnel typically will include all individuals with doctoral or other professional degrees. but in some projects will include individuals at the masters or
baccalaureate level provided they contribute in a substantive way to the scientific development or execution of the project. Include present membership on
any Federal Government public Alosinpe committee List, 5 chronological order, the titles. all authors, and complete references to all publications during the
past three years and to representative earlier publications pertinent 10 this apolication It the list ol publications in the last three years exceeds two pages,

select the most pertinent publications DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.
RESEARCH/PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

Medical

MA.
CA.

11/86 - 12/87
-
01/88 07/88
08/88 - 06/94
07/94 - 08/94
09/94 present
HONORS
1993
1994
1995-1996
PUBLICATIONS
Papers

Research Assistant, Anatomy & Cell Biology, Harvard
Doctoral Candidate in the laboratory of Dr. David A.
Biology, Univ of California, Berkeley.
University of Missouri, St. Louis, MO

School, Boston,

Participated in biochemical purification oft tropomodulin in the lab ofVelia M. Fowler
Research Assistant, Molecular Biology, Research Institute of Scripps Clinic, LaJolla,
Assisted in polyclonal antibody production and purification in the lab of' Velia M. Fowler.
Postdoctoral fellow, in the laboratory ofDr. Shirley T. Bissen, Dept. of Biology,
Postdoctoral fellow in the laboratory ofDr. Marla B. Luskin, Dept. of Anatomy and Cell
Best poster award, West Coast Regional Developmental Biology Conference
Invited speaker for minisymposium, Society for Developmental Biology meeting
National Research Service Award, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and

Weisblat Molecular and Cell

Biology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA

Stroke

Smith, C.M. and Weisblat, D.A. (1994) Micromere fate maps in leech embryos: lineage . specific differences in
Smith, C.M., Lans, D. and Weisblat, D.A. An investigation of cellular mechanisms of epiboly in leech embryos
Bissen, S T and Smith, CM mRNA synthesis is required for asymmetric cell division during a critical period of
Fowler, V.M. and Smith, C.M (1988). Inhibition of tropomyosin binding to F-actin by tropomodulin, a new
tropomyosin-binding protein from the human erythrocyte membrane. LCellBiol 107: 681A

rates of cell proliferation. Development 120:3427-3438.

(Submitted to Development)

early leech development (In preparation).

Abstracts

PHS 398 (Rev. 9/91)

(Form Page (9 Page
50650464

FF

Numbor pagos consacutvely at thas bottom theoughout the application No nar use suftuxes , as la 3b.