WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRIBUNE
D. 25,605
S. 49,326
WACO METROPOLITAN AREA
MAR 9 i963

F.C Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard-- Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission froni going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it
dnes not sccm right or logical that one medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer w hile
newspapers, magazines, billboards and C ount CT
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expected 10 review the FCC propnsal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
June 1, that requires cigaretto packages carry the
warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC said it is proposir.g to refuse Jicenses
01 broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising
becauso of evidence that smoking is injurioun 5 hoalth
and the FCC has an obligation 10 protect the public
interest. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals 0) do
as they please so long as they doa't harm another.
Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that if nok don't mention something, maybe is won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democrat, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Coni-
merce Commitice, said in reference 10 the proposed
FCC rulc that the ngency had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has
any right to tell an advertiser what he could not
say in his advertiscments. Rogers sald Congress will
take a close Icok at the whole question of regulations
on television and radio advortising content. not only
as to the Federal Communications Commission but
in regard to Federal "Trade Conunission praclices as
The stakes involved extend beyond the business
of broudcasling. They 08 to the heart of whe:her
governmeat burcaus should be allowcd to go beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Heulth.

hurt you and will disappear.

well.
3

tho linits of due proccss and the Jaw,