True-Tal lae Questlons 8 the Chenistry and Psychophyslolog of Odor end Flavor
1. T . Sono modern workers suggest that nocurate manaurament of vlbrational
frequency (in the far infrared, for exemple) of nn unknown odorant
wili pernit prediction of its quality and intenslty.
T No elenentel substance, not even he lides or ozone hes eny odor; Instead
they react with the mucose fonning new products whlch are smelled; but
T Sone odorants have sterle or vihrational propert les which force the
conc luslon that they are odor less whon they are not.
11. 1 Present evldence strongly suggests thet dl fferent parts of the ol factory
receptor area, Ilke tho retina In the eye, are qua ilty-spocific.
T Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor
T No one yet has a firm clue as to the criticol reletion between the
molecule nod the receptor which permlts on odor perception,
- The greater the secretion rate of eucous or sellve, the higher their pH,
end both pli and temperature influence the quallty of sensation in the
111. T The Idea Instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sone
quantitative range as doos nn onlea or human subject.
1 Such an Ideat detector has not been developed.

sone elenents possess taste.

sur face In order to be smelled.

chemical senses.

2

Ilman observors with head In flxed position cen by virtue of the two
Indopondert nostrils easily discern stereo Site 11 effects, 1.e. they
can tell whother an odorant Is a the right or left hand, much 05 orie
uses nts two ears In locat ling the source of a sound.
I For certaln musk- liko conpounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to
trigger a hunon olfact ory response
v. - Adotation to poo olfactory qunlity does not significant ly reduce
sensitivity to any other dissiei lar quality, but does reduce sensi-
tivity to all slallor qua lities.
T F By employing a almliarities aethod of conpering qualities, one con now
obtain ldent Ity hnd degroes of difference without recour se to troshle-
vi. T Hunger louers thresholds slightly to some food qun 11tles but not for
1 It is now possible to Ident fy the intensity and quality of a certain
given stimull simply by expert examination of the electrophysiological
record taken trom approprlate odor or taste neurons.
T Electrical stimulat lon of taste in man yields only reports of "sour"
and a "metallic" or "alkalind" quality.
T Direct electrical stimuletlon of the olfactory senae has never yet been
successfully accompllshed.
VIL T Although total anosala is rare In humans And egeusla even rarer, there
is evidence that ln analogy to color vision deficiences, some people
are Insensit tive to (only certein) qualities whi le having normal
sensitivity to others.
T Toplca anesthetics applied to the tongue show that different quallties
1 Certaln endocrine diseese entitles make It possible for some people
quite sensitively to "snell" such "odor less substences 09 sucrose or
sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be
reduced to nornet by eanipulation of endocr Inn levels.
E enenopause wonen at the tlme of ovulation flnd certain odors extremely
disogreeable whlle at other times In the menstrun cycle these neme odors

sone words.
others.

of taste disoppear at different rates,

they will judge qulte pleasant.

DV X