C.

da/m/

ATT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
New York Timer Serrier

wan bought 5.1 billion American AmcHcan cigarette promotioo about 80 New Taiwan dollars -

made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even in receat

($2.86) compared with 22
panies 6 advertise on TV after

TAIPEI The Marlboro COW- up sales of $119 million. la 1986, trade talks betwen the United 11 Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for A
boy in his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Suales and Taiwan Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly is shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis
10N1. His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered * ing in Japan are more liberal. Com-
guitar-playing jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted give out nos cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign Television
This frenetic, fast-growing DA- cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawed in the United States in 1971.
tioe of nearly 20 million pcople ly because both Taiwan and Japan school students I 12, years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-siandiog restrictions. are now smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry a label that,
inbatantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exports of like that? I's O.K. to have cigaretics them sake of health, doa't smoke loo
made is America, not Taiwan la American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" - a warning much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy a S16 billion trade surplus with tbao the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $1 billion in new sales. the United States. But those people mandated in the United States.
Wacturers have essentially intro- la Japan, which has . population are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe oompanier aay American
duced cigarette advertising to the of 120 million and where people "uru - human being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling wellin Taiwan

And mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.

eut this city, next to posters ol a peroent.
er of Winston cigarettes.

"They to amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

for most of the growth in American R said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-

year and for the first time, E According to the Brown & Wil- rette companies promote

toughly translated, says, "For the

ialand, and tbat has created . furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year. that.
Government officials bave accusod imports have more than tripled
ing teen-agers 9 take da moking. more than to percent last
operation that had monopolized percent by 1992.
.proseure from Washington. In the alcobol.
* cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw Shau-kong a
ufacturer at a time when sales in and
the Unitod States are way down
laws is
way up.
According the U.S.
01

not BO much because of the adver.
manufactur- tising as bocause they are of better
thing wrong with the way they are cigaretter are made of blended to
bacco and have less tar than Tai-
producta and thei 14) wancse cigarettos which are not

American
cigarette
year,
their

tbe American
bolly deay.

the past year. The market share 2E
frons 3 percent 5 1986, and thej promoting

companies of entic American cigarettes increased 5 E vigorously deny there la any quality and taste better. American

a charge the American companies
tised, altbough it does now.

Department of Agriculture pro ihry have no pians to change
American pressure ne open their have they pusbed todo so, they say.

bleoded.

The soverameol-administered dicts that it could grow to 15 8. 20 sales pitch.

Tbey are not allowed to advertise
5 small stores where cigarettes are
tions. Cigarette manulacturers may

the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials say tbey resent on television or la newspapert Nor
The povernment agreed to allow markets to producta that endanger They can advertise only througb
others into the business oaly under poople's health. like cigarettes and posiers hung near cigarette racks or
year since stift restrictions oc for. "This really burts our feelings, sold, as well as through promo-
.e American cigarettes h Taiwan A., tbe United Suates doca legislator. not en- also place 120 ada - year in #
have soared, generating much- courage its people to amoke, why zines, cach ol whose droulation acl-
peedod prowth for American man- export 6 Taiwan? Younger poople dom excooda 200,000.
and tbe aumber ol anti-imoking cause of American ada. They bire rettos accouated for leas than 1
mert ol Agriculture, people B Tal- difficult lor Sunak boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed to sell

femalcs are smoking 1 lot be Bdore last year, loreign ciga-
young attractive 19-yoar-ol girla oent of tbe market. Taiwan
Suuvan short skirts 01 give me cit- posed strict quotas on
Depart- arettes (ree in nightclubs. k's a cigarettes. benned imports at F
and then it becomos a babit. It's cigarettes and kaposed stif tarifls.

124
forcipe

immoral."

E rorult imported ciparetter coet

L/C000SZ
1/