BOULDER DATLY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

- a N

Area stores

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For tha Delly Camera
nors.
kids.
ker,

referdng to the Increased enforce-
penally lur selling tobaccoto ml:
tried to buy tlie cigarelles. The

ment.

Boulder police stung 11 busl-" Store clerks uulucky oFqanous
_nesses this week during a crack. get'caught were issued Lasumons-
doum on selling cigarettes to mt to appoar 51 court. 1 Tho maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve horis pozs. line.
of- the American Cancer Soclety's The eting involved two tcams.
Great American Smokeout. was In- Each included u uniformed officer.
tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain ciothes. omcer. and two
legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School girts, Who
Police targeted gas stations, con: girls' parenis signed a walver al.
venience, drug, grocery and dis. lowing themto take partin the.op:
"law has never beeri enforced, said The juvenlles wero told not to
JOPINOAL Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
"We're letting the stores know had to show identification.

"Coun stores. Until recently, the eratlon.
this ic going to happen, ahc sald,

the cigarettes. and, if asked, they
(Gce DOULDER, Page 3C)

Boulder police sting stores '

-
:

for

sales

cigarette
(From Page (JT

to minors
The clerk at Colony Market,

At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began to cry,
280h Sh, one of the girls asked when she Was Astec Sum-,
the cashler for a pack of Marl mone, ous cald a wus a stur: d
boro Lights. Omcer Rob Hauke- dent and couldn't puore the
ness, In plaln clothes, stood In court costs. HAlikeness pou) 01
"tra-hehtnd her to witness thç oontore hor, saying she coulu.
A placard near the cash regis- the Distriet Attorney to do oam 2.
ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity acrvice instradof paying
No 'ar No Sale, No Way." The the Ane,
clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clorks, not the store
The buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the:
drlver's license, which showed court costs.
sha WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do k to
cd at the license, scl it down on stores or clerks, she said. punishi.
and sold her the though, when you Bee clerks
After they left, Haukeness "Roulder Police targeted 15:
stepped dn and identified him _oloros and cler ks alallbut four
eelf as a police officer, Manka recelved summonses.
came In and wrote the clerk a Thic woek'a
I see them ask for an year. ThA first sting, condueted.
E I think they're going to 2 in Scptember, targeted 16 stores:
fuse the cale," Haukencss sald. und ST clerks received Rum

transaction.
cation-
counter.
the
cigarettes.
summons.
"When
"But they never do."

prubably work out a dealuith-

à
own
"Al-:

ing, you might think otherwise. crys
operation was the.
punas tobacco sale stine this

monses.