DALLAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Texas April 14, 1954
Tobacco Firms Ask New Cancer Studies NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing growers and tobacco Industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers. tional" statements linidng smoking Among those quoted by the com and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer alded picture of the relationship of Institute of the United States Gov- cigarettes and bealth and called ernment, port that the which said in a 1953 re- research to estab- not been established. Several lish the basic cause of the disease. ot the institute's scientista also The tobacco industry resenrch were cited, committee issued a booklet COM- Runyon Others quoted were the Damon previously published state: more research, and ments by thirty-six cancer author cer Surgoon Dr. Max Chicago Can- who itles doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons Cutier, may by other cancer experts that tobac- develop lung cancer partly because The earliest, whitten in 1923, sald conclusion of a direct relationahip there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientitic and none that would produce turnors. hazardous." The most recent, dated last March "It smoke in the lungs were a 16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of be done before causes of lung can- have had it long ago," cancer, tbe cer or any other kind of eanoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report Little, The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratory, Bar Har- S January to combat mounting bor, Maine. charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the up of nearly every major elgarette University of Texas School of Medi- manufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Innur
for exhaustive talning
had
cause of lung cancer Fund, which called for of smoking but that to accept the
8 causes tung cancer.
we'd all
can be established.
director of the Roscoe B. Jackson ance Company and British author- itles. Neariy all those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until a absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report was described by an industry spokesman as an "in- terim" statement, pending an- nouncement of the choice of a prominent scientist to supervise basic cancer research to be f- nanced by the industry. That scien- tist will decide how the industry's cancer-research money is to be spent. No date has been set for his At the last count, the committee said; there were more than 850 cancer United research grants 5 the States alone, "any one of which might produce evidence to unlock the secrets of lung cancer,
selection.
-
