Genetie Epidemiology 5:265-275 (1988)
Estimating Genetic Parameters of Survival Distributions: A Multifactorial Model
Joanne M. Meyer and Lindon J. Eaves
Department of Human Genetics, Medical College ol Virginia, Richmond For: 3 number of genetically influenced illnesses. age ofonset is correlated between relatives. in some cases, age of onset also serves as an index of an individual's inherited liabiliry to us illness Typically, survival models for age of onset distri- butions do not allow for these effects. We have used the gamma distribution as the basis of a model which specifies genetic variability in age of onset. Specifically, we allow the hazard frequency parameter of the gamma distribution of be a under various gamma models indicate that age of onset correlations may be strikingly different from correlations in liability. Maximum likelihood estimation procedures were used to obtain parameter estimates from simulated data sets and on determine whether it is possible to discriminate between gamma processes of different order. The resulus for 1,000 pairs of twins (500 monozygotic and 500 dirygotic) gave parameter estimates that were fairly accurate but that decreased in precision as the order of the gamma process increased. We discuss the effect chis may have uo inferences made about age of onset. Key words: age of onset correlations, survival models, gamma distribution
monotonic function of an individual is inherited
to an illness. liability
tomte
Simulations
INTRODUCTION
Genetic analyses of illnesses and behaviors showing a variable age of onset require a knowledge of the cumulative probability of onset by given ages. Some approachès (Weinberg, 1915; Stromgren, 1938; Risch, 1983) derive this probability from prior age of onset distributions. Others [Elston, 1973; Heimbuch et al., 1980; Risch, 1983) estimate parameters of a cumulative age of onset distribution from the data. When the data allow its use, the latter method is more appealing since specific
Received for publication January 11, 1988; revision accepted April22, 1988.
Address reprint request of Joanne Meyer, Department of Human Geneties, Box 33 Medieal College of
Virginia, Richmond, VA 23298. O 1988 AJan R. Liss, Inc.
