ANE PKJ
vul 13 au 13 pp.2721-2725
Carcinogenesis
robi
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke carcinogens aupueng-1-04p1ueso00)+ and benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
3 420
chemopreventive agents
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Health Foundation. Valhalla, NY 10595. USA
models examined o date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the A/J mouse because previous
The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer In smokers. Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to by 4-(methylnosaminol- 1-d-pridylb-l-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of Cemale A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastric gavage (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of intraperitoneal injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or Bap for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and7.12-dimethylbenzlanthracene (9,10). either 6 or GI weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the AlJ mouse oi evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The :81 route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactor) than i.p. administration. (4,11.12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse can be replicated because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate thelnjection site and associated mortality, A dose e-response (PEITC) le an effective inhibitor of lung turnor induction by relationship for lung tumor inductior by i.g. administration NNK ur both the A/J mouse and F344 rat (11.13) mice killed 9 or of weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of/NK and BaP a total carcinogens This may not 2 realistic with respect 01 tobacco of24 umol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important Comparisons of NNK and BaP given individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (11. when given by the ig. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effeets of chemopreventive agents given either were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP. The most favorahle dosing reginien of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluation of chemopreventive agents appcars to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 umol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and subdoses ig., with sacrifice 6 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we examined tumor yields obtained dosing. This reginen induced 10.5+4.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP. given simultaneously for mouse. > combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethylisothiocyanate. given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure I). This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, scan found to be an effective inhibitor of lung prelimianry test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP. thls study proslde a convenlent model for assessing the NNX was synthesized in the American Heates Foundadon Organic Syathesis efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. Its purity was establited by HPLC as >997 BaP (93% purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A diri containing 58 com oil, as previously play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups et 15 as sammarized in Table 1. At age 7 weeks. each mouse was kers: 4-(matt)itrosa-1-4-pyrid----uanone (NNK*) treated by intaperitoneal (ip.) injection or by intragastic gavage (ig) with and benzolalpyrene (BaP) (1) NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical in 0.1 ml cononsed pl. NNK and BaP were bola carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in the O.I ml used for treatment Injections and gavages sere carried *ALbreslations: NNK. 4-(mathylmosamino) 1:(3-pydylel 1-butunene individuat dose was one-cighth of the total. Equimolar dours ef NNK and - Bar, benzolelpyrens: PEITC, pheneihyl isothiocyanale BITC, benzyl BaP were used la most of the combination groups, bacause the amounts of
whlch these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP u! combination was established in the that Bal was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
Most previous studies in the A/) mouse have examined
We sought e develop a model which could be used to
5.9: 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse S V 0.001) and completely inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materiale and methods
BITC 586) purity) and PEITC (939 purity) were ebtained from the Aldrich Chrmical Company (Milwaukes. WI). Coftonseed oll was purchased from Female AJ mice. age 3 weeks. were obtoined from The Jackson AJOILIOGET (Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the The design of thr bioassay is illustrated a' Figure 1. The mice were out for 8 consecutive werks The toral doses ar given 5 Tuble L Fach NNK and total earcinogenic polyayelic hydrocarbons in tobaceo smoke are
Sigma Chemleal Co. (Si Louis, MO).
Introduction of
agents against two of the carcinogen in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
divided
isothiocyanaie, ip. intraperitoncall, ig., introgatis gavage.
o Onford Univenity Press
2721
