FF
Principal InvestigatouProgram Director (Last, first, middle):
Cardenas. M.E.
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH POSITION TITLE
Glve the following information for the key personnel and consultants and collaborators. Begin with the principal
investioator/orooran director. Photocopy this page for oach person.
NAME
Kara Dolinski
Graduate Student
EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or other initial prolessional education. such as nursing, and include postdoctoral training.)
YEAR CONFERRED 1992
INSTITUTION AND LOCATION
DEGREE Ph.D. (candidate)
FIELD OF STUDY Gene tics Technical Writing & Editing
Duke University, Durham. NC
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA B.S.
RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Concluding with present position, list, in chronological order, previous employment, experience and honors. Kay personnel include the principal investigator and any other Individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the projoct. Key personnel typically will Includo all Individuals with doctoral or other professional degrees, but in some projects will include individuals at the masters or baccalaureate level provided they contribute in a substantive way ol the soieritic development or execution of the project. Include present membership on any Federal Government public advisory committen List, in chronological order, the titles. al authors. and.oomplete references to all publications during the
past throo years and to roprosentative earlier publications pertinant le this application DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.
August 1993 - present May 1992 May 1993 1988 - 1992
Graduate Student, Duke University, Department of Lab Technician. Biogenesis of the Yeast Vacuole (Elizabeth Jones). Carnegie Mellon University B.S. Degree. Technical Writing and Editing. Graduated with University Honors. Biogenesis of the Yeast Vacuole, Carnegie Mellon
Genetics, Durham, NC
University.
Publications:
J. Heitman, M.E. Cardenas, T. Breuder, C. Hemenway, M. Lorenz, R.S. Muir, E. Lim, L. Goetz, D. Zhu, and K. Dolinski. Antifungal effects of cyclosporine and FK506 are mediated via immunophilin-dependent calcineurin inhibition. Transplantation Proc. 26, Hemenway, C.S., K. Dolinski, M.E. Cardenas, M.A. Hiller, E.W. Jones, and J. Heitman. vph6 mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae require calcineurin for growth and are defective
2833-2834, 1994.
in vacuolar H+-ATPase assembly. To Be Sumitted to Genetics.
PHS 398 (Rev. 9/91)
(Form Page 6) Page 50664551
FF
Number pages consecutively at the bottom throughout the application Do a use suffixes such * 3a 3b.
