996
- pal
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richard L. Nacye, MD, and Woodrow S. may vaiy in incidence and Somerset Counties of central pneumuconiosis were nained anthracite roal. Survey eon-
Findings Dellinger, MS rank, low-volatile cosl in Cambrin and plianla. Pean- None of the men hnd ever cucted between 1902 and 19-35 ly the Fennaylvania INpartmet of Stiner : Minrral Indurtries plowed an a serage coal dunt exposure por werk- ing rhift of 11,AU,UN eutile font of uir fur bitumeca parifes per work- silica cuntent of ceal d Jut in low in all arenn of . aeldem belng greater l'enney tan :.. However, the mine durt contettra- t: n of free ailica in greater for monte u dergruund wurkets puch as nol all'achearing d The 77 cases palverin rand. selerted un le hoat.d huthera, risited calaga Ales le each of "v ven pirpose E -neral hospital and read of man yeara mge : dh-d parumoratinsis, de twevh 1000 anl I:his, le to determine if paru- for rasex Atarted with The Atch the patisit deacriptins of the lun, Whr was any mentlen of E . pi,ment, parenchymal netuls ", nl- or any hlatury of ming. the fin ti. nt's clinical chart was la. etan.ind, data were estr.ce A ca a as inrludel In the ptudy unly esperar 2 4 lu sprein. mines 3 1-EN jetilde rretise nasnht.ained. (Iinun'- - Pa -nocnnin Nu L & Delle a 223 027050
Coal workers pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one pationt to another, In found to correlate well with quantitative. measurements of (1) the volume of nodules, and (2) the silica macules and nodules. Unfertunately, recognition of cmphysema and chronic appear to be most closely correlated with miners with no roentgenographic emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspinea in with silica and collagen. (rom 10 to 4GC of Appuluchian chitis and coal workers have rorntgeno- lur, graphie evidener of symptoms, and physical findings lare been diniralt to make, workers pmeumeoniosis "black lung" is not but a composite of multiple disorders, and severity, dupendent graphic aren, exart occupational a posure, and apparent individual PUs ceptibility." Theee niultijde dis Feom tley hann ni 4 Pri- 31 datum % L'aiser-A Cull & A * hnr. Mettry Krpte I : M-P 11. : : hal nesirl Craler. Hesh, 2 atuu abe I JAMA, Apral 10, 1972 . Vol 220, No 2
proccss but a a study of 77 miners of postmortem anatornic pulmonary dust macules and content collagen of dust there was poor roentgenopraphic cor pulmonale, lhe tnu chsorciers A evidence of pneumoconiosis had addition lo dust macules
bituminous
coal, roentgenographic categories lor
(silicon dioxide) )and
which
dyspnea munber of ern, The free
hronchialitis.(s) crniluhu I Aters and edrdrie Inv panlolalar, and paracicaticial a "ara who drill into onntive ojer to make di-enve prirerser tl rough a searel uf inlluences nu the ruentgen- +4 ler than 20 workera withent areristed Ti a ere abnormalities Patients Studied and Methods frum I'nnes hania and Wed Vir
mrconlonia, hat E relatiuns belween pneu- emphysema: und (5) tuberruluin and n-k or eneouter
such reentgenugraphic cabnormalitics, onasionally othur di ara-e preeses. early stages." TheAe eepecinlly in tions to disability." I is thr
Theve srparate appear ographic feature of sone upon gro enigenographic
difering reita ilo
whn
dificulties prob of the current a single disense pron est Another aim
ably erie from the faet that roal individual staly tn evahuate tlicir a :4y protorul that lavehed every a AU-
each of which nay vary in inridenre muconiuris with disalilits I in Rints"
order indude(1) primary ennl alust Patirutu The patients Were ET un- ar I informatinn lantry 3ledical C nht. INan-hanis State lew-rank hich-valatib caal in ranties gr unel
maculu; (2) silicaris; (a) ebrunic bran- dergruul miners nf hitumin cnal li and uthrr maieerat nona-
ginia, of santhneatern
Thir:ane had talwaya mined nf treqatinas l'ennes Nrania vr in ru: irmad ly a F: nerth- W. Vir,it.ia TL. A "ail haul
ether as hat alvay, min d highrr in matim Indradatie tin i. pas in:
PUBLICATIONS
10346287
