HKE2228112
SASTA BAKBARA SAN14 -

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
I - : 114. - : : :
7 : . 1 VIINI 2
14PARTMI 7 : : tinn
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willian H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Research roundation
715 Muir Lands Vista Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. Fishan:
and Salk.

: - a : 1 L IM: b

a
-
1A : MILOENA :

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolia rescarch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founcation and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzyaes
should fit in well with ongo ing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnrent of a focal center for rcsearch proorams on oncodevelopmental
prublems is particularly inely. It will be 0! grat potential importance for
pulling tcgetter vort. by a number of laboratories directed touard isolation,
characteriztaion and doterniriation of the sienificance of huran oncodevelopmental
antigens such as alphafeteproteir and carcinoesbryonic antigens.
One of the goals of Che work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship
of increased seruea concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinogen
exposure in humans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systers clearly derion-
strate tne 1 anirals pasodixa to hejatocarcinogens have clevated serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developrant of Falionant tuncrs. It is hoped that syster? tic
study of human scra frut difforert aurces will determing if serum AFF concun-
In addition, the role of env irumental fac tors such as hormo'tal influences on
the production of oncodevelopmental gene prj-lu, can be further explored in
different sy: Lems. Such data implics that (he prod;u tion of oicocavelopmental
gene product; by tunor cells is net a fixed property of a givon tumor but is
He look fonrard to working vith you and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundat fon
in furthering research in the important subject of oncodeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinosen exposure.

subject to environmertal controls.

expression.
Best regards,
Stewart Sell, N.D.
Professor
SS/nb