Mutations in signal transduction pathways

and inherited diseases

NOTICE THIS
PROTECISD UY

MATERIAL MAY BE
17U.S CODE

Paolo Sassone-Cors and Emiliana Borrelli TITLE VCOPYRIGHT LAW

CNRS-INSERM, Strasbourg France

Intracellular signal transduction pathways have central roles in processes
such as growth, differentiation, neurotransmission and development. The
aberrant expression of components of various signal transduction pathways
has profound consequences for cellular functions Recent findings indicate
that many cases of neoplasia and inherited diseases have, at their roots,
mutations in key steps of signalling pathways
Current Opinion in Cenetics and Development 1992. 2:455-458

Introduction

Troubles in the nucleus

A prerequisite for normal 2 growth and differentiation
is that each cell must be able to receive, interpret and re-
the extemal interface of the cell that bears many elements
required for the primary analysis of such signals. Among
these elements are membrane receptors that are able to
interact specifically with a variety of compounds. Binding
of a ligand to its receptor initiates a cascade of events that
modulate a variety of cellular functions including the con-
trol of gene expression By altering the spectrum of genes
expressed the cell appropriately adapts its physiology to
deregulated cell proliferation and ultimately tumourige
use cyclic adenosine monophosphate (CAMP) and dia-
cylglycerol (DAG) as secondary messengers, exist (1,2,3).
Each pathway is characterized by its specific protein ki-
identified to date [4]. A myriad of interactions between
membrane receptors and cytoplasmic and nuclear com-
expression [s-). Significantly, oncogenic products OC
signalling (6-), graphically demonstrating that aberrations
in transducing systems can have dramatic consequences
the links between defective signal transduction and dis-
ease. In this review we will focus on some key examples
that represent paradigms of this phenomenon.

In the nucleus, many transcription factors E as AP-1
(7-), NF-xB [8], CREM [9-) and: SRF (10] have been iden-
and Jun for AP-1 [7-). and Rel for NF-xB (11). Yet other
oncogenic products have been found to have important
functions at the level of gene regulation, as in the cases
of Myc, Myb and ErbA (12-). Correct transcription initia-
tion relies upon cooperation between these various fac-
tors (13-). In addition, proteins that negativeh modulate
the regulatory activity of nuclear oncoproteins have been
found 01 respond to various signalling systems (14*,15).
plasia can be associated with a specific transcription fac-
tor defect concems the disease Wilm's tumour (16-). In
the USA, among children under 16 years of
tumour include aniridia, hemihypertrophy, malformation
of the genitalia and neurofibromatosis (NF). The mode
etrance (17). In the past, this kind of neoplasia has been
loss of a functional gene product resulted from muta-
tion at homologous loci. Recently the wtl gene, which
suppressor gene and encodes a nuclear protein that in-
teracts with specific DNA promoter elements by means
of a zinc finger-containe domain (16-). The wilms

spond appropriately to signals sent both from other cells tified as the final targets of signal transduction pathways.
and from their environment. The plasma membrane is Some of them are constiruted by oncoproteins, like Fos

a given stimulus, Aberrations in this process can lead to and as such could be considered as transcriptional anti-
nesis. Two major signal transduction pathways, which A striking example of how inherited diseases and neo
protein kinase < (PKA) and protein kinase C (PKC), are 350 new cases of wilms tumour diagnosed every
respectively, although a large number of kinases has been year. Congenital abnormalities associated with wilms
ponents are responsible for the fine modulation of gene of inheritance la autosomal dominant with variable pen-
cupy pivotal positions in all the pathways of intracellular explained by a 'two-hit' mutation model, in which the
for cellular physiology and metabolism The past year has is located at the Wilms tumour locus (11p13), has been
I many important advances in our understanding of cloned and characterized il is postulated 00 be a tumour

oncogenes.

there
#

nase,

Abbreviations

CAMP cyclic adenosine monophosphate, CE-cystic fibrosis: CFTR-CF transmembrane regulator,
CRE-cAMP-responsive elements DAG-diacylgycerol Ge-CIPase-activatin protein, G-protein -GTP-binding protein;
NF- -neurofibromatosis PKA- protein kinase A; PKC-protein kinase C WT-Wilms tumour.

Current Biology Lid ISSN 0959-437X

455

2031367951