SYMPTOMS AND THE LNEIANOEILANCTOMOIN IN THE
SICK BUILDING CINOHAS A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.LH.
complaint associated with the "sick building syndrome
Ar same time, themicro-environment (enviroumental

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT
the

et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
questionnaire The symptoms were more common . build-

In a cross-sectional investigation E I building. office buildings built over the last S years with a validased
were meaured on a linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooline and
characteristics 5 the breathing zone rather than area direct relationship between the level of complaints E air
samples) I characierized by measung temperenure, quality parameten : not described. Skov et a (1967) e
relarive humidiry, respirable suspended 'sxpound car- amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern I
bon dioxide, noise level, lighting insensiry, relacive ku town halb and 11 older control buildings A kel ol 1
midiry, and airflow. No relarionship I seen benwern toms was related 8 a "Reecing" factor (carpets, upholstery.
the degree of symptoms and age, educarion. or duration and horizontal surfaces) cad the "macro-molecular I
of employment at the building or time spent is thr 1 nent" of dust. They also demoostrated a relationship berween
hn on a daily basis. Starisaily, complaint were the pumber of houn spent photocopying and using carbonles
significandy more frequent among smoking I Envi- Adoo paper and tbe level of complaints. Other studies have
rommental characteristics associased 1 d increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985)
complaini levels in this group included decreesed airfow and prychodynamic factors (Rowand et al. 1984) coatribute
models, there was an association between respirable as- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome by mea-
pended particulases and the levels of boch mucous mem- suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertaon et
brane and sysemic complaints. Satisfaction wish d F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif.
thermal environment e predicted by percepcion of dreft ferences la the concentrations of environmental polkatats
k nor clearty contribute to the degree of symptoms, berween rooms in a mechanically and a naturally veutleted
although regression models did suggest E complaints building. They studied the rooms with the I complaint
were nor independent of thermal parameners. 4 I I and used area samples. Skov et a (1987) did demon-
inaensity MES also associated L complaints. I strate a relationship between symptoms and both area I
mudies of de sick building syndrome I examine ples measuring dust and - "macro-molecular" fraction. I

humidifcation. irrespective of the

.

air of the buildings. A

velocity and increased levels of respirable suspended par- a indoor air quality complaints.

diculates I dry-bulb semperature. In regression

Several studies have attempted to identify the actual

1 exposures simultaneously and indude prycho la arta I

L meases a identify predictors of complaints in

Area samples in buildings may not be representative of
a exposure in different points in single rooms Physical
characteristics such a windows and partitions, computers,
and sbelving may infuence air currents. Radian I may

indoor spaces.
INTRODUCTION

Complaints termed the E building syndrome" bave kad ol uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, moet pol
led to pumerous investigations in the last 15 years. A are hutants resuh from point sources, % they will be diluted a a
thought to occur primarily . newty constructed I I subject . farther removed from the source. The micro 4
E and, at kast in the past, were thought to be due e vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Nevertheles. a different exposure characteristics than tbe macro-enviroe
I variety of causes have been identibed is specific settings. meat of a building la addition. all applied occupational and
inctuding inadequate semperature and relative bumidity 8 environmental bealth research that attempes os relate dose to
trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatike organic compounds beakb effects suffers from the problem that dose is penerally
and formaldebyde. microorpanisms, enviroamental sobecco measured at several points in time a then extrapolated lo 1
smoke, pesticides. I entrainment of vehicle exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decades
spent and contaminated air and boiler fumes, fibers rekased à most heakb effects are measured as - I 1 ol
from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sampling
A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnepan where the kevel of symptoms Aeu change not merely trom
et al. 1984) surested that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to hour, such a stratery mast fail.
(Robertson et al. 1985) a unable os identify difierences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameten in the I
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (temper- eavironment and set these characteristics in relacion a a
ature). relative humidity. air velocity. formaidehyde. or pos- kevel of individual complaints at a piven point in I This
itive or nepative ions between several rooms . a building report presents results of a crom-sectional investigation of a
with patural and - building with mechanical ventilacion, problem building using a setf-administered. linear analog.
where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
E I . Amistan Profenor of Medicine and ol ladustrial E Emvironmental Heakh Sciences at the Univeruty ol Pistsurgh Schools
of Medicine and Publec Heahh. P. Celepy a Director. Enviroomental Heah E Salery, Camepe-Mellon Univeruty. Pirtsburgh. PA.

(Kreiss and Hodpson 1984; Hodpson and Kreiss "(9961
marily to mechanical ventilation. The same proup ol authors

results in greater than the difference in average samples, and
No investigations in a peer-reviewed titersture I