LOS ANGPIES TIES Los Angeles, California October 20, 1954 E been proved. lale L'niversity
havel upon the premise that hination n' a partirular type anertinn hetween riea in each nf the three rategories smoking and disease ha: has alrcady produred 'a sale Might Take Six Months one 11 is. so all can be made Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. 11 not, the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Carrnce Cook Litte, complete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific art- date, said tbat "some say sro visnry bnard and scientic di should wait for more defini rector o: the Tobarro Indus. ing a sale cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would nne has said just what the de produre snmr nl "the defni finitive evidenre ww be." iive eviderre' tn which Dr : sand he "took issue' with Hammond referred. In are Talk 10 the Ameriran "We wiil tackle system was more important, line of the
Calls Safe Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link la Overwhelming
cigarette osji scientific re- search should prove which should find "since one, peo- ple like to smoke cigarettes. try Research Committee, de- seribed the outlines ni siud- Tackle Unknewns research industry's program "We seek definitive
Expert for
atatistician
tive evidence before develop-
NEW YORK Ort, 61 (ILP) this iewnoint
The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Sneiets meeting. Dr eously many of the unknwns simultan arette smoking with b a - h Hammond said the relation- in this feld of tobacen lise in lung cancer and heart dis. ship nl rigarette smoking to relation to human health, be ease is "ourrw helming" and the heart and the vascular said in announcing the out- once about develoning "a safe health. than the relationship findings in an area where cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to murh suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find ai safe cigarette from bren done. The program of Tobacco Industry Research inbacen, there are varinus relationshin hetwen rry rin- Committec ananceded some of types a filters, and there are mental factore, inrlud F a the details nf :ts seicatific re- varinua terhniques nf euring The most
something should be done at from the standpoint of public
the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recognizes that we prove surcessful in six do not have today 1he experi months, wirh inck." he said menta! evidenre that wi'l prr- is tobaren, he said, and in may et was important nroet
meeting of the American migh: Cancer Society today. At the same time the scien- tific advisory board of the srarch program te h
Outlines Described are There varinus types of he that some fortuatous rom- up LOS ANGEIPS EXAMINER los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
mit scientific concluainns PA- garding the CAURA and efert amnkine and lune eancer a dirert XENdy nf current lung cancer rase: a 10 medical centers in :he : 'ni ed States and Canada.
It will inelude numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokers, an well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. The apecitio research grants, financed Aq the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY NO TOBACCO NEW YORK, Oct. 19. - A broad sbe-point study seek Ing knowledge whether eigarets or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards was announced today. It in the fIrst announcement of a big research proxram headed Aq the selentifle ad- visory board a the Tobaceo In dustry Researeh Committee
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
