DALLAS MORNING NEWS
Dallas, Texas
April 14, 1954

Tobacco Firms Ask
New Cancer Studies
NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing
Industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers. growers and tobacco
toonal" statements linking smoking Among those quoted by the com.
and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer
sided picture of the relationship ot Institute ot the United States Gov-
cigarettes and bealth and called port ernment, that the which said is a 1953 k
for exhaustive research to estab- had not been cause established. of lung. Several caneer
lish the basic cause of the disease. ot the institute's scientists aiso
committre issued a booklet con- Runyon Others quoted were the Damon
published state: more research, and
ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgeon Dr. Max Chicago 8
ities doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive Cutler, who
by other cancer experts that tobac- deveiop lung cancer persons because may
The earliest, whitten ie 1923, said conclusion of a direct
there were irittnts in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientific relationship apd
none that would produce tumors. hazardous."
The most recent, dated last March F smoke in the lungs were
"9r said much more research must sure-fire cause of
be done before causes of lung can- have had it long ago," canoer, - the we'd all
cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report
The tobacco committee, formed Memnrial Laboratory, Bar Har-
5 January to combat mounting bor, Maine.
charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited
dn of nearly every major elgarette University of Texas experts School of Medi-
nanufacturer and organizations eine, the Metropolitan Lile Insur

The tobacco industry research were cited.

taining previously
8 causes lung cancer.

Fund, which called for
ot smoking but that partly to accept the

1

a
at the

can be established.

director of the Roscoe B. Jackson Littie,
ance Company and British authar-
ities, Neariy all those quoted
agreed that no conclusions çould be
reached until 'an absolute cause for
lung cancer has been established
The report was described b an
terim" industry spokesman as an "in-
statement, pending an-
nouncement of the choice of a
basic prominent scientist to supervise
nanced cancer research 8 be f-
Aq the industry. That scien-
tist will decide how the industry's
cancer-research money is to be
spent. No date has been set for his
At the last count, the committee
said; there were more than 830
cancer research grants in the
United States alone, "any one of
unlock which might produce evidence to
the secrets of lung cancer," a

selection.

)