PRCCMAEROOUS-0OOPRS B

August 18, 2000

Via Facsimile and Overnight Mail

Re: Independent Auditor's Notice of Intent to Issue % Revised Final Calculations for the
Tobacco Litigation Master Settlement Aereement Subsection VI() Account
(Subsequent) Payments Due March 31.2000 and Subsection IX(cX1)Account

Payments Due April 15. 2000- NOTICE ID: 0033

Dear Notice Party:

PricewterhousscCooprr LLP, in its capacity as Independent Auditor to the Tobacco Litigation
Master Settlement Agreement ("MSA") provides the following notice to indicate the Independent
Auditor's intent to issue revised detailed calculations of amounts to be paid into the Subsection
VI()) Escrow Account (Subsequent) and the Subsection IX(cX1) Escrow Account ("3" Revised
Final VI()) Calculation" and ps. Revised Final IX(c)(1) Calculation, : respectively). All
capitalized terms used in this notice, unless otherwise defined herein, shall be defined as in the
MSA The information contained in this notice is considered confidential and should not be used
i light of several data-related issues raised in dispute letters authored hq the National
Association of Attomeys General ("NAAG") and one of the Participating Manufacturers, as well
as newly provided data by one of the Original Participating Manufacturers this weck, the
Independent Auditor believes that the issuance of a wE Revised Final VI(c) Calculation and a 3r
Revised Final IX(cX1) Calculation is necessary. It is anticipated that these calculatione would be
issued on Friday, August 25, 2000. In regards to payments made &q those Participating
Manufacturers having payment obligations resulting from the 2 Revised Final Calculations
issued July 31, 2000, the Independent Auditor intends to withhold instructions to the Escrow
Agent for disbursement of deposited funds to the Settling States until any additional payments
required by the ps€ Revised Final VI(c) Calculation and 3" Revised Final IX(cX1) Calculation are
made. Over and underpayments will be treated in the manner sct forth in subsection XI(i) of the
Finally, with respect to the issue of dispute deadlines raised by NAAG, the Independent Auditor
believes that subsection XI(I)1))A) of the MSA requires related payments to be made t .not
more than 20 days after receipt ofthe notice.. 1 and disputes to be made : .not more than 15
days after receipt of such notice. - Therefore, as previously stated, the Independent Auditor
anticipates issuing the 3" Revised Final VI(c) Calculation and 3"Revised Final IX(c)(1)
Calculation on Friday, August 25, 2000. Notices of dispute(s) related to these calculations would
then be due September 8, 2000 (as September 9, 2000 falls on a weckend). Payments, ifany,
would be due September 14, 2000 and disbursement of those funds to the Settling States, as well
as the funds deposited by Participating Manufacturers in response to the July 31, 2000

for Sur purpose other than as contemplated in the MSA.

MSA.

calculations, would occur September 15, 2000.

.

Notice ID 0033