LOS ANGELES TIES
Los Angeles, Californio
October 20, 1954
n been proved,
iale
1.niversity

hasel uudn the premire that Sination ' a partirular type
a nnneettion hetween riea- in each nf'ee three ratrgories
Calls re in smokine and disease ha: has alrcady produred "a safe
Might Take Six Months ene it is, so all can be made
Dr. ": Cuyler Hammond. that way. If not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Carrnce Cnok Lit:e,,
compiete statistica! study to rhairman of the scientine ad-
date. said tha: "some say we visnry bnard and scient fie di-
should wait for more defini rector o: the Tniarro Indus-
tive evidence before develop- try Resrarch (ommittee, de-
ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would
nne harsaid just what the de- produre some nf "the defmi
fintiie evidence wmud be." iive eviderre" S weich Dr
Hr sar he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In his :alk in the Ameriran "We wiil tackle simultan
system was more important, line of the industrv's research
migh: prove surcessful in six do not have today the experi-
months, "with ltck," he said menta! evidence that willerr-

cigarette J1, so. scientifi re-
search should prove which
should find one, "since
ple like to smoke eigarettes."
seribed the outliees nt stg--
Tackle Unknewns

Expert
for

atatistician

peo-

Safe'
Cigareftes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming

NEW YORK, Ort. 61 (1P this virwnoint.

The evidence connecting cig- Cancrr Society meeting. Dr eously manv of the unknowns
arette smoking with both Hammond said the relation- in this feld of tobacen mie in
lung cancer and heart dis- ship nf rigarette xmoking to relation to humun health," he
ease is "overwhelming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the our-
something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitive
once about developing "a safe health, than the relationship Andings in an area where
cigarette. : a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to murh suggestive work has
cal scientist told the annual find "a safe eigarette" from heen done. The program nf
meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recngnizes tha: we
t'e advisory board of the There are varinus types nf garding the raure and rFrrs
Tobacco Industry Research tehacen, there are varinus relationship hetween rrv rrn-
Committee anaounced some of types 2 Riters, and there are mental factors, includine
the details nf is seicatiee re- varinus sonb.ugeel n! euring The most important

Cancer Society today.
At the xame time the scien-

Outlines Described

mit scientific eonclasions rA.
smnkire and lune eancer.
eurrent lung cancrr rase: in
10 medical centers in the :n:
ed States and Canada

srarch
program

which tobaren, he paid, and it may

prnceet

ie he thar some fortuitons rom- Fet up was a dirre: suudy - nf

LOS ANGE LES EXAMINER
los Angeles, California
October 20, 1954

It will include numerous
studies of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers.
as well as tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. The specifio research
grants, financed aq the TIRC,
will be announced later.

HEALTHSTUDY
ON TOBACCO
NEW YORK. Oct. 19.-(PY
A broad sbx point study seek
Ing knowledge whether eigareta
or other forms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health haz.
ards was announced today.
It is the first announcement
of a big research proxram
headed by the sclentifie ad-
visory board of the Tobacco In.
dustry Research Committee

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062