-
SYMPTOMS AND THE IN3/NOOIIANA-ORDIN IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
et al. (1967) investigared the frequency of complaints in 43
5 e cross-sectional investigation in one building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validased complainss associared with the "sick building syndrome" questionnaire. The symproms were more commos .8 build- were measured on a linear analog E questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and Ar the: same time. the micro-environment (envirormental humidification. irrespective of the i of the I A characteristics in the breathing zone I I area direct relationship berween the level of complaints and air samples) a characierized kq measuring temperanure, Aaremb parameters : not described. Skov et a (1967) ex- relacive humidiry, respirable papuadms "wmooud B pourur indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern Danish bon dioride, noise level, lighting intensiry, relacive har town halls and 14 older control buildings. A level of 1 midiry, and airflow. No relationship a seen berween toms was related 0s "Reecing" factor (carpets, upbolsery. X degree of sympioms and age, I or duration and horirontal surfaces) Ead the "macro-moleculer I of employment at the building or time nods in she 1 5 of dust. They also demonstrated - relationship between hn on a daily E Staristically, complaines were the pumber of hours spent photocopying and using carbonless significandly more frequent I Supoous 3 Envi- lduo paper and tbe level of complaints. Other stdies have ronmensal characteristics associaied wich : increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985) complaint levels in this group included decreased airflow I prychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute models, chere a an association berween moandsa au- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome b mea- pended particulates and the levels of boch mucous I suring mooddmss and environmental exposures. Robertaon et brane pue ryssemic complaints. Sasisfaction 1 * F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. I environment as predicted wondruad ofdret ferences .s the concentrations of eavironmental alshough regression models E I t comp * building. & studied the rooms with the f compl
E
velociry and increased levels nqundsalo -ndpopuddmr 8 indoor air quality complaints.
riculates 1 dry-bulb semperanure. In regression
Several studies have attempted 8 identify the actual
R nor
I ventilated naturally again
clearty contribuee ot she I I independent of chermal I F insensiry I also associated 1 snuiis of * sick building syndrome I meanures ot ideniify predictors of complaints in
of rymptoms, berween rooms .s a mechanically and a
I m
I 1 used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did I vnre strate a relationship berween symptoms and 8 area - I ples measuring dust & a "macro-molecular" traction, Area samples is buildings & not be representative of d exposures is different points ie single I Physical characteristics such as windows and particions, I and sbelving may infuence air currents. Radiam I may
muliplee exposures simultaneously and include prycho 5" I I
indoor spaces. INTRODUCTION
Complaints sermed the "sick building syndrome" I lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, I pol- led 6 numerous investigations in d last 15 years. They are hutants resuk from point sources, os they will be diluted as a thought oI occur primarily is newty constructed 8 1 subject -n farther removed from tbe source. The micro 4 inp and, at least .s the past, were thought to be I to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1984). Nevertheles, a different exposure characteristics than tbe macro-enviroo- # variety of causes have been identibed is specife settings ment of a building. is addition. all applied occupational and inctuding inadequate temperature and relative bumidity 8 environmental bealth rescarch that attempes oI relate € to trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds beakh effects sufler from the problem E 8 is penerally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, environmental sobecco measured at several points in time and then extrapolated lo < smoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicie i Q allow developmemt of exposure classifications I decades spent &. contaminated air and boiler I fbers released I most heakt effects are messured as a single I of from & lininps and otfice machine ottgases and odors these chronic exposures. Where the variability of I A proup of investigators trom Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom et a 1984) 1 that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to hour. such a stratep most fail. (Robertson et al. 1985) was unable os identify diflerences in attempted to characterize sir-quality perameters in the micro wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (temper- eavironment and set these characteristics is relation a d ature), relative humidity. air velocity, formaldebyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at . given point .s time. This itive or nepative ions berween several rooms in a building report presents resul of a cros-ssctionnal investigation of a with natural and - building with mechanical ventilation. problem building using a sel--administered, I analog. where both 5 of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom E I a Aminaa Profemor of Medicine and ol Indestrial and Environmental Heakh Scencees at the Univerury ot I Schoot of Medicine and Publc Heahh. ' f a Director, Enviroemental Heakh and Salery. Camepe-Mellon Univeruty, Pittsburgh. FA.
(Kreiss and Hodpso 1964; Hodpson 3 Kreiss 1986). marily OI mechanical ventilation. E same group of authors
results is greater than the difference in average samples, aad No investigations in the peer-reviewed litersture I
o
PAcicer FRpoyCIS Busp
