Genetic Epidemlology 5:265-275 (1988)

Estimating Genetic Parameters of Survival
Distributions: A Multifactorial Model

Joanne M. Meyer and Lindon J. Eaves

Department of Human Genetics, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond
For 2 number of genetically influenced illnesses, age of onset is correlated between
relatives. in some cases, age of onset aiso serves : an index of an individual's
inherited liabiliry to an illness. Typically, survival models for age of onset distri-
butions do not allow for these effects. We have used the gamma distribution as the
basis of a model which specifies genetic variability in >8e of onset. Specifically,
we aliow the hazard frequency parameter of the gamma distribution to be a
monotonic function of an individual's inherited liabiliry io an illness.
under various gamma models indicate that age of onset correlations may be
strikingly different from correlations in liabiliry. Maximum likelihood estimation
procedures were used te obtain parameter estimates from simulated data seus and
os determine whether lt in possible to discriminate herween gamma processes of
different order. The results for 1,000 pairs of twins OOS) monorygotic and S00
dirygotic) gave parameter estimates that were fairly accurate but that decreased .s
precision as the order of the gamma process increased. We discuss the effect chis
may have on inferences made about age of onset.
Key words: age of onset correlations, survival models, gamma distribution

rolirt

Simulations

INTRODUCTION

Genetic analyses of illnesses and behaviors showing a variable age of onset
require a knowledge of the cumulative probability of onset by given ages. Some
approachès (Weinberg. 1915; Stromgren, 1938; Risch, 1983) derive this probability
from prior age of onset distributions. Others (Elston, 1973; Heimbuch et al., 1980;
Risch, 1983) estimate parameters of a cumulative age of onset distribution from the
data. When the data allow its use, the latter method is more appealing since specific

Reccived for publication January 11, 1988; revision sccepied April 22, 1988.

Address reprint request 1e Joanne Meyer, Department of Human Geneties, Box 33 Medical College of

Virginia, Richmond, VA 23298.
1988 Alan R. Liss, Ine.