LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday, March 20, 1977
AOOKK ATTESTS
-To jadge "6 thé torrent a: protés the FDA has received. 'a simble por- the. calorie-counting 4 agrres. Long accustomed 6 a cross A frr: A criticss from industry "and a consumrr activists, the FDA bas been- bésieged by citizen demands to liber- -ate saccharin. And moves areafcot irt- - Cangresr i amend the. Foad: and.: 2 :ruu Act- m 1 5 fv f "There'sbeen ttremendous.cuter : from all:ovrr the country"" an EDA spokesman i Washington said: "I€ -ranges from anguish to anger:We've. "eevr been this busy." hte * 2 TThe FDA: for -ts part; saysit was Fonly doing what the- -law- required. law-specifically the Dela- ' ney clause Congress inserted.in the. * Fpod: Fand Drug Act ir 1958 says that:1 additive-shall be deemed. caner F mre or animal" eyidence afcancer E humins
The
hie lar may
Ban.on Saccharin: 10) Why? ROBEF H GII . Times * lence wrier -Dces it make 9 zsë 8. ban a popuiar focd addtive oa ke strength of what and. happens when 1 hundred rats E oisprings kuge doses? - 1 4 Calorie Contral Couneil, Ine, R. food'and drink, .bas spent thousands: - ministration fos its decision SJ ban sweetener currently 8 the market. y "aven the VIA if wiling to admit ttère's a basie difference between 4. : rats and human a cne such adin the. TTAA Street Joarnal:cbserved. :SI- just another et mpie df the arbitrary mtirr oibig guremment. uer
tiar of:
public
SEAAST the gic of seem.to the: general public, mediea reserrchers say: that the- animal A a -périments upon-which such regilato-- reeciiooss are baséd do have -UeS a sibler rationale- and that. they 4 bave a direct:bearing. .on risk g. hu-: STI true, researclerr acknowieds thittherats 'tt thecenter of this fur. crè consmme each day the saccharin : a eqqiralent : reughiy"..00 cans v : lowicalorie soit' drini: But they-con- sidérit misleading-- not dishonest- tosuggest as "te -alorie couneil bas: that this disparity makes the researcir 7. trelevant 6. humans. : - who a PPaple drink oniy 'nne can dari et saccharia "sit drink"run a" à "compaaably lower risk of cancer. But in à EIZ7D million people, the collective population hazard cauld stil .add. thousand - upitoseeeraa cases ai blad- dercancer: E: snc D.s. ::11 à Horeeveer scientists note; r pert nen M that led. the € bar
mmans $
. 1 i
eat. 3 additive in: d --Andithe
- trade
"po-ficdd)
Alantta thinks mot The argani- - tôbe safe it it Es found after Essn satimn whose 000'0:S annual budget. which are appropriate forthe evaiua- comes I manufacturers at dietary 1 too of the safetyai food additives:to oidellars E thelast few days for E-m stiduc * (he clause does:not allow fara bal 1 page newspaper ads across the coun-4 2 andin 2 ofris . an benerit. Nar dces it" try-bertting 5 Food and Drug Ad- : rediire: the: ban > 5 B based a A
saccharin, à the : oniy -nonnutritive 4 M sAtiic
7035437
0087432
TIMN
