HKU2223022

Life Sciences Vol. 15. PP. 1291-1300
Printed in the V-S.A.

Pergamon Press

KETAROLISM or PrAAPPPPEES : ktcH E - FROK
TISBUES b PREOaUANT AR FITAL MAMITERE
i 1. Mang, Ronald ii Rasmunsen, and T. Timothy Crocker"
Cancer Research Institute, Untveraity of Californis, San Prancieco, and Depart-
I of commanity and Invronmental Medieine, University of California, Irvine".
(Received in final form 26 August 1974)
I
Pretreatment of hansters vith benzo talpyrene (BaP) grestly incressed
: Sl vitro metabliim of E b lueg alerosonns i prognant I
stare, and F Jewe eftect 8 the metabolim of Bap by itver miere-
I The produetion of various metaholites of E I lung miere-
sonos E inereaned to different extenta: 3-hydrery-Ba? (3-CH-BAP)
! ene of the najor matabolites; a netabolic yielde ot :
dihydrodihytrory--ar (9,10-d101) and 1,8-diel vere incrensed more
than that of t. 4,5-diel. In the ense of 1iver nierosomee, only the
yielde of 9,10-dioi and 7,0-diol vere incressed ovar the eontrel
levels, The presence of eyclohexene oxide in the incubation E
tures decreased the production of the diole. Basal-level enryme
activities in placental, fetal 1iver, and fetal akin mierosones in
metabolizine 5 vere very low, Pretreatnent of pregmant hansterr
with BaP indaced BaP-metabolizing entymes in fetal tierue 2-3 fold.
Benso(alpyrene (Da le . cercinogen and anvirommental contaninant that ia
found In coal tar, mineral oll, : exhaust, tohacco snoke, moked foode, etc.
(1). In vitro sratien shoved that netabolie activation of Bar ie required for
Ste interaction vith proteins and nuclele aeide (2,3). Rarller studies with
rat 1iver preperations 14,5) and hanater 1iver microsomes (6,7) shoved that Bar
le metahelised mainy 8 phenolie and dihydrodihydroxy (diol) derivatives, and
9 quinones I are enzymatie or air ovidatinr producte 2 unstable phenolie
netabolitas (4,5 a vell as some unidentiried more polar metabolites, the
metabolien of Rat has generally been reseured da the production of 3-hydroxy-
BaP (3-OR-RAP) which Je aften one of the major metatolites in vitro (3). 3-0H-
nap ie tonie te euitured celle (9), hut it shove very 1setle interaction vith
DIA in vitro (6) and has not been shown 3 2 carcinomenic. 8 the other hand,
K-regton eporides ef related polyeyelie aronatie hylrocarlons (PAM)bind s cell-

1291