rD
9-9-7
Makèrsof Cigarettes Claim Nolnterestin Pot NEW YORK g - Ciga- ODMTONE TOBACCO company rette manufacture have DO erest in rrport recommendation was
% e 4 - * AV 4 Tuesday, olficial noted that the staff legalize marijuana for per- of vsons over 18 years age 2 While : the. biggest market Preventlon -riight be a lower age brack- 4 - W d mends legalizatio of "pot" NtrMary Jane sort of : goes with the youngsters." com- Sam Fouts, advertis- ""o, no no, no = ass Hing wmented manager for Larus Bros. been a rumor"or pn. Jast E . a & Co.. ot Ricbmond, Va. years and thatgrve E. cadse 'Mary Jane is an old nick- to check H o thoroughly, this 1 pame for. marijuana but gen- erally has fallen Into disuse anywhere: Th "iddstrry, among the young. William Kloepler ' the: To : Fouts, noting that mari- bacco Institate, declared. : fuana is' "still a rather taboo topic" in the cigarette in- "THERE LNSI P ol., dustry, emphasized that his goes by thatssme segment comppnn "wouldn't touch it
say chey à diversifying to PHAD mari- op" - juana, despite - Caf réport - of the on the Causes - ol Violence B *recom- "et. for adults.
a 0
There is * tô
: -
Des 1 month a the underground - press doesn't cerry Sstory about et all." how tobacoo companies are gearing 5 for the marifuana trade," pouret.POPP Bolling. vice president and assistant Phhllip Morris, chairman 2 4 Inc. He' PFS Hyeee this type of : speculation *is 2 uncer- "agepuens ate tobacco com- panjes I Aprgnd beld,and under strict govermment con- trol; no'one 'can eved remote- ly: become lnvolved" "because at. "hee present 1 tme mari. juana is ilegal. 1. ATX N . -Terr have been persistent stories 2 that tobacco com- panies aarready have regis- tered E possible - brand names trademarks .hatt in- clude some of the current ve- nacular associated 4Is marijuana, and that 'they have been buying dn huge tracts of land in Mexico on which to harvest marijuana. . w**tmr a "WE'RE NOT filing for trademark' names like "Aca- pulco Gold' or buying land south of the border," CoFB mented, Joer - a : 1 4 4 ust EiF . a a -ii - m 15 X i - de $ - 2" - A ust har mir . a w a 2 est 14 or - F 4 1i a a 15" 2 - M . . tee a N o i 1 ereri : E Krt ASs 4 a * - 0s die vi YBEEX 5 . - :6 -
