24

s/u/PP

IHT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Nr Yerk Timer Server

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars -

made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even 'nn recent

($2.86) compared with 22
panies càn advertise on TV after
cigarettes and
an aggressive campaign. Television
gifts,"
reeee
IROAN
was out-
lrwed in the
States in 1971.
junior high
Orserree
old Cigarette packages sold in
13years
and UEAII must carry - label weger
skk of health, don't smoke loo
to
Ennin
with tban the health-warning labels
jou 0s much because oi the adver-
tising as because they are of better
manufactur- quality and taste beiter. American

TAIPEI - The Mariboro cow- dn sales of $119 million. ln 1986, trade talks betwoen the United 1 Taiwa dollari E cents)fora
boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- States and Taiwan. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghng from his mouth, has come te eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan'sdeputy minister of The limits on cigaretie advertis
town. His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, régistered R ing in Japan are more liberal. Com-

and dod-pur-uoom stores through- uvo cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
guitar-playing pep-suvar promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted
This frenetic, fast-growing Da- cigaretie exports last year, primari- teachers told me that
billion cigarettes last dropped long-standing restrictions. are now smoking How can
rubttattia number of them were lamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? Itss O.K. lo
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy a $16 uomt4 trade
ialand, and tbat has created z furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year. that."
Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled American cigarette
tbe American companies of entic tbé past year. The market share
ing teen-agers uake da moking. more than 0t
. charge the American companies froms 3 percent perceot 57 1986,
The govermecciaddmiiistrd dicts that it could grow 9 16 8. 20 sales pitch.
operation that had monopolized peroent hq 1992.
.presrure from Washington. In the alcohol.
year since stilf restrictions oc for- "This really burts our
-cign cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw
have soared,
-pedded growth American man-
ponrainns
sfacturers ata time wben sales is export Taiwan? Younger
laws :
way 'dn

out this city, next to posters ola peroeni.
b
Winston
of
cigarettes.
tioe of
nearly 20 million pcople
mokkdd 34

amusement placesto 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

most
for of the
in American
growth
ly because

a said recently. "Many school- advertising of

both Tawan and Japan school students - 12,

yeir and for the first time, E According lo the Brown P> Wi- rette companies promote ciga- roughly transiated, says, "For the
brinds to Taiwan, American man- sulting 5" $i billion is new sales. the United States. But surplus those people mandaied in the United States.
Waacurers have essentially intro InJapan, which has . population are just like robbers. If you aré A Tbe 'ommpanies Ameriaan
paonp cigarette advertising to the of 120 million and where people, man,a human being.you wod't do cigarettes are selling Mcil in Taiwan

made .s America, not Taiwan all American-made

cigarettes occupy the whole martets. We en- much" a warning much milder

American cigarettes increased E vigorously deny there is any-

e
botyy deay.

585
last
m

thing wrong with the way they are diarrttess are made of biended to-
promoting their producis and bacco and have less which tar than Tai-

are not

Department of Agriculture pro- ihry have no pians to change EE wtees bleoded. cigarettes,

Tbey are not allowed to advertise
L small stores where cigarettes are
lold, as well as through promo
a feelinga. legisiator. tions. Cigarette manulacturers may
dom exooods 200,000.
le
tC

the cigarette market had not adver- Taiwan officials tbey resent oo television or in newapapers. Nor
A government agreed te allow markets te producu that éndanger They can advertise only through
-others into ibe businss oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and posiersuung near cigaretie racks or
k American cigarettes B: Taiwan R.) ube United Shau-kong Sutts docs not en- jiso place 120 ads I year 5 maga-
the Unitod States are way down and females are smoking a -99 Belore last i forcign ciga-
and d number ol anti-smokkin caus of American E They bire rettes accounted R leu chan 1
According to the U.S. Depart- arettes Tree in *omput k's Saa digarttes, banned imporu at *T
mbet R Agriculture, people B Tai- difficult lor young boys 6 resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed 0t sell

_tisdd, altbough it does now,

American pressure 39 open their have they pusbed to do io, they say.

much- courage its people lo amoke, why zines, cach of whosc droulation acl-
young attractive pho-r00666! girls oent of tbe market. Taiwan
Suymo short skirts 01 give "t t posed strict quotas on forcipn
and then it becomes a babit. It' cigarettes and imposed rtil tariffs

of

14

immoral."

: rerult, imporied ciparetine cost