Vol. 285 No. 23
EDITORIALS
1317
The New England Journal of Medicine Official Organ of The Massachusetts Stedical Society Founded in 1812 as the Nrw ExGLAND JOuRNAL or MEDICINE AND SURGERY and continued in 1828 as Vol. 1 of the BOSTON MEDICAL AND SURGICALJOURNAL PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE COMMMTTEE ON PUBLICATIONS or THE MASSACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY Claude E. Welch, M.D. Chninean Joseph Garland, M.D., EDITOR EMERITUS Franz J. Ingelfinger M.D. EDrroR ASSOCIATE EDITORS George S. Richardson, M.D. Boox REvIEWS Robert O'Leary, ASSISTANT EDITOR EDITORIAL BOARD
ACTION ON ASBESTOS ASBESTOS workers are unintentional victims of industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary fbrrosis pleural calcification, mesotheliomas andlung cancer. Asbestos exposure is now wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex- posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or ferruginous bodies may be, there is no doubt that electron mieroscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers ease in the general population at this time, the presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing. Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction most chemical and physical means and can foat freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods. sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must be made now, on the basis of "reasonable probabili- ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition These thoughts are reinforced by the work ôf
involving not
air but also widespread, drinking water.
only
Alexander Marble. M.D, Samuel Proger, M.D.
Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al- Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-
by
Jane F. Desforges, 6 Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.
Ronald A. Mait, M.D. Asbestos discases have a long latent period, 20 Arnold L. Smith, M.D, years or more. We therefore believe that more
of dose-response relations.
Robert E, Johnson, 9 Norman 2 Levinsky, M.D. Francis D, Moore, M.D, Charies < Sanders, M.D. Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D. Ronald A. Arky, M.D. Dana L. Farniworth, M.D.
John W. Litdefield, M.D, Murphy and associates in this issue of the Journal Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, (p 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved 5n Louis Weinstein, M.D, new ship construction include better John R. David, M.D. exposure data and indicate a high inçidence of as- Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. pestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-
usual than
Howard Bleich, M.D,
Isadore N, Rosenberg, M.D. Milton u Paige.Jr. BUSINESS MANAGER
tions. A second study of Murphy et al. reports two cases of pleural disease (one mesothelioma) a workers who sanded asbestos florr tiles. Since the
AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au- unl should consult "information for Authors." This material thors simulated the working canditions and found may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour- concentrations of S"I Abers per milliliter 'of room CASz REPORTS, usually published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 40I fbers every gence" section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled cine is covered by copyright, The Journal does not hold itsef A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation- REPRINTS: The Jourmal does not stock reprints of the art-- tion of those who are exposed in their occupations. ALTHOCGH all advertising material accepted is expected 5 biologic effects and the physica! characteristics of SUBSCRIPTION PRICES (worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with 1 interns, residents $7.50 peryear). Rates are in U.S. fundsonly. confidence." Although we endorse these recommen- MICROVILSE volumes available to regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for through University Microfimms, 315 N. First Street, Ann technical controls based on existing COMMUNICATIONS shouid be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologie monitoring, physical studies of as- land Journal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects
nel, or l may be obtained from the Joumal office. The entire air. This concentration is less including references, should be typed double space, pue all material, including figures, should be submit- used reference to articles reporting closely related cases. A very fbers remains in the short case report or a descriptoon of a technic submicted : a "BRIEY RECORDING" should be limited to 500 words, MATERLAL printed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period. responsible for statemetss made ig any contributor. NOTICES should be received not later than noon on Mon- day, 24 days before date of publication. cies published. Requests should be sent to the author. imply endorsement by the Journal, Arbor, Michigan 48106. chusetts 02115.
1/5 of than currently these lung, fgures suggest that has called for control panel needed urgently "if a knowledge.
manuscript, ted in duplicate.
threshold
limit values. A fbber per milliliter of room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per an alarming number will still accumulate over a -OI of asbestos emissions at the source and for protec- The report also calls for further research on the
HT Academy of Sciences
conform so ethical medical standards, acceptance does not asbestos fbers; such data are
on cells and tissues are important and must be con-
