HK02228112 KANTAAANBARA SAN14
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
: B4. i 2 : a -AR - 1 - AASIN NR
IANHIA MIONVA 2
NIN4 IN VIIINI REPARIII : : ramRe January 3, 1977 Dr. Willian H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Rescarch rourdation 715 Kuir Lands Vista May La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. Fishman: and Salk.
We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of the La Jolia rescarch cocdunity. In particular, the activities of the la Jolla Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzynes should fit in well with ongoing activities noi only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establisnrent of a focal center for rcsearch proorams on oncodevelopmental prublems is particularly irely. It will be 0: grat potential importance for pulling tcgetter work, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, characteriztaion and doterriratiin of the significance of hurian oncodevelopmental antigens such as alphafeteprotein and Carcinorrbryonic antigens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship of increased serum concentrations of ArP to prenalignant lesions or carcinogen exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systers clearly derion- strate tnet anirals pasodka to hejatocarcinogens have clevated serum ArP concen- trations prior to developrant of mslignant tumrr. It is hoped that systerrtcc study of human scra frun differert auurces vill determing if seru AFF conc.n- In addition, the role of envirunmental factors such as hormoual influences on the production of oncodevelojmmntaa gene praks can be further explored in different sy:tors. Such data irplies that (he prod:u tion of ohcocevelopmenta gene products by turor ceils is net a fixed property of a given tumorr but is Hr look fon:ard to workina with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the important subjert of oncodeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoger exposure.
subject to envirormental controls.
expression. Best regards, Stewart Srll, N.D. Professor SS/nb
-
