BOULDER DAILY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

a

Area stores

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For the Delly Camera
4
kids.
ka:

referring to the Increased enforce-
penalyy Tur selling tobacco vor ml-
tried og Ang the cigarelles. The

ment.

Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky enoueb. OF
nesses this week during a crack. get'caught were issueda summonn-
down on selling cigarettes to mE- to appoar 51 court. Tho maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve -oris R S200 fine.
of. the American Cancer Soclety's Tho 9upa involved two tcams.
Oreat American Smokeout, was -"I Each included u uniformed 'omcer.
tended to educate clerks that it's -I! a piain clothes ouicer. and two
legal S sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School sirts, who
Police targeted gas stations, con: giris' parenis signed a waiver al-
vënience, drug. grocery and "spp lowing themlo Tako partin thc.op:
- 1sw has never been enforced, Pies The Juvenlles wore told not to
Jopinog Policc Offccr Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk 1 sell
"We're letting the stores know had to show identification.

'count swres. Unul recently, the eratlon.
this le going to happen," shc said,

the cigarettes. and, if asked, they
(Sce DOULDER, Page 3C)

Boulder police sting stores
for cigarette sales to minors
At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry
28uh SL, one of the girts asked when she was istle a sum-
the cashier for a pack of Mart mons. oys caid ahe was > stur
boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- Jue and couldn' atord Qu
ness, S plain clothes, po01s "l court costs. HAukeness poin "ol
ttne-hehind her to witness thc oongore Rer, saying she could:
A placard near the cash regis- the District Attorney to do com, -
ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice instrad of paying
clerk asked tn sèe some identif- Tne clerks, not the store OWI-
cation. Thc buyer produced lerr ert or manugers, have to pay the.:
she WAS only "21 Tho clerk look- "We don'l du it 01 punish.
cd at the license, act it down on stores or clerks," she said. "Al-:
the counter, and sold her the though, when you see clerks cry:
Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targcted :SI
stepped Jn and identified him aloros and clerks E ail bur @
eelf a3 a police officer. Manka recelved summonses.
came In and wrote the clerk a Thie wock's operation was
"When I see them ask for an year. Tha Arst sting, conducted.
E I think they're going to z u September, targeted 16 stores:
fuco the calc," Haukeness said. und 15 clerks received sum::

(From Page (OI

The clerk at Colony Market,.

transaction.

Aqngard work out a deal-with

No 'at No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, -
driver's license, which showed court costs.

'
-

cigarettes.
summons.

ing, you might think otherwis..
secund tobacco sale stine 1 the:

"But they never do."

monses.