True-Taise Questlons S the Chenistry and Pygcsspypsollgy.oo.0oer and Fievor 1. TF Sone nodern workers suggest that nccurate mensurenent of vibratlona! frequency (in the for intrared, for exanple) of an unknown odorant wili pernit prediction of its quellty and intenslty. T. F No elenentel substance, not even halides or ozone hos eny odor; Instead they react with the mucose forning new products which are smelled; but T F Sone odorants have steric or vibrational propertles which force the concluslon thet they are odorless whon they are not. 11. T F Present evldence strongly suggests thot different parts of the olfactory receptor ares, Ilke the retina In the eye, are quailty-specific. TF Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor TF No one yet has a fire clue as to the critical relation between the molecule and the receptor which permits en odor perception. TF The greater the secretion rate of nucous or selive, the higher their pH, and both pH end temperature influence the quality of sensation in the 111. TF The ideal Instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sene quantitative range ns does an onimat or human subject. TF Such an Ideat detector hes not been developed. IV. : Imma observors with heed In fixed position cen by virtue of the two Indopondent nostrils eesily discern stereo small effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier a odorant is ot the right or left hand, much es one uses nis two cara in locating the source of a sound, +1 For certain nusk-like compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger a humon olfactory response. "A TF Adeptation to one olfactory qunlity does not significantly reduce sensitivity to any other dissiei ler quality, but does reduce sensi- tiiiy to all sinllor quelities. TF By employing a similerities nethod of compering qualities, one con now obtain identity and degrees of difference without recourse to troale-- vi. TF Hunger lowers thresholds slightly to some food quallties but not for TF Ir is now possible to identify the intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull simply by expert examination of the electrophysioiogicel record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons. T F Electrical stimulation of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and e "eetallic" or "alkaline" quality. T d Direct electrical stimulatlon of the olfactory senso has never yer been successfully accompilshed. VII. TF Although total anosela is rare In humans and ageusia even rarer, there is evidence that In analogy to color vision deficiences, some people are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while having nornal sensitivity to others. - F Topical anesthetics appiled to the tongue show that different quelities 1 F Certain endocrine disease entitles make Ir possible for sone people quire sensitively to "snel!" such "odorless" substences es sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to nornat by manipuletion of endocrine levels. TF Premenopausal wonon at the tiee of ovulation fInd certain odors extremely disegreeable while ot other fimes In the menstrual cycle these seme odors
sore elements possess taste.
surface In order to be smelled,
chenica! senses.
sone words. others.
51
of toste disappear at different rates.
they will judge quite plessant.
ovi A -
