WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRIBUNE D. 25,605 a S. 49,326 WACO METROPOLITAN AREA MAR S 836!
F.C Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard-- Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission fron going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarctte So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it does not scem right or logical that one medium of advertising be forbidden the producer while displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires Junc 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC said l: is proposing to refuse Jicenses to broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising because of evidence that smoking is injurious to health and the FCC has an obligation 1 protect the public interest. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals to do as they please 50 long as thcy don't harm another. Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if you don't mention something, maybe de won't Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democrat, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com- merce Committce, snid in reference to the proposed FCC rulc that the ngency had overstepped thè bounds of its nuthority, le said he doubts that FCC has any right 01 tell an advertiser what he could not say in his ndvertisements. Rogers said Congress will take a close Icok at the whole question of regulations on television and radio advortising" content, not ouly as 01 the Federat Communications Commissioon but in regard to Federal Trade Commissiion praclices as The stakes involved extend beyond the busincss of broadcasling. They 03 to the heart of whe:her government bureaus should be allowed to 03 beyond
advertising. 4
billboards and counter
t newspapers, magazines,
Hazardous to Your Health.
hurt you and will disappear.
well. 7
the limits of due process and the law,
