BOULDER DATLY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
a
Area stores
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For tha Delly Camera 4 kids. k
refercing to the Increased enforce- penlly Tor selling tobacco. vor ml tried 0. Anq. the cigarelles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks ualucky enough. OF nesses this week duning a craçk. getcaught were issueda summong dowm on selling cigarettes to m to appoar 5 court. Tho maximum The sting. conducted on the eve horis R $200 fine. of the American Cancer Soclety's The Supa involved two tcams. Great American Smokeout, was - Each included a uniformed 'offcer. tended to educate clerks that ir's -II a plain clothes mcer. and two legal s sell tobacco products to Fairviow High Schoo girts, Who Police targeted gas stations, son: giris' parenis signed a waiver al. vénience, drug, grocery and p lowing themlo Take pariin thc.op: - Tay has mever teer enforced, pies The juvenlles were told not to JopInog Policc Oficer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk de sell "Were letting the stores know had to show identification.
'count stores. Unui recently, the eration. this le going to happen," ahc sald,
thne cigarettes. and, If asked, they (Sce BOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors At the Conoco station, 8000 2020 Broadway, pegan 01 cry 28th SL, one of the giris asked when she was isted a Sum, the cashiar for a pack of Marl mons, oys cafd Ohg wzs a stu boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- 3up. and couidnt aord u ness, s plain dothes, pools uy sourt bosts. HAlkeness poûs 01 ina-hehind her to witness thç sontole hér, saying she couly. A placard near the cash regis- the Distriet Altomey to do cam, . ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice instrad of paying clerk asked to see some identif- The clerks, not thc store owT cation. Thc buyer produced her ers or manugers, have to pay the.: she WAS only 4I Tho clerk look- "We don'L do lt 01 punish cd at the license, sct it down on stores or clerks," she said. "Al-: the counter, and sold her the though, when you pee clerks crys Afler they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targcted sr stepped da and identified him slorgs and clerks - mi bur  self as a police officer. Manka received summonses. came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wook's operation was "When I see them ask for an year. Tha first sting, condusted. E I think they're going to à ur September, targeted 16 stores fuse the cale," Haukeness said. and 15 clerks received sum
(From Page (OT
The clerk af Colony Market,.
transaction.
Atquard work out a deal-with-
No 'ai No Sale, No Way," The the Ane, - driver's lcense, which showed court costs.
: -
cigarettes. summons.
ing, you mnight think otherwise. sevund tobacco sale sting - the:
"But they never do."
monses.
