HK32228112
SANTABARBABA SANI4-P

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIECO

: A.  - : A5. : - 15A : 14SIRAM MA

IAMIA MIIEVIA 2

MIBN 1 MAIESI
PEPARIMI 4 : PATN
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willian H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Research roundation
715 Kuir Lands Vista Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. Fishman:
and Salk.

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolia rescirch cordunity. In particclar, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzyses
should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental
problems is particularly ieely. It will be o! gvat potential importance for
pulling togetter vork, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation,
characieriztaion and doterniriation of the sipnificance of hurian oncodevelopmental
antigens such as alphafetuprotein and carcinowmbryonic antigens.
One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship
of increased serusa conçentrations of ArP to preralignant lesions or carcinogen
exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and nouse model systess clearly derion-
strate tnet anirals pasocixo to hepatocarcinoens have elevated serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developeant of alignant Lucrs. It is hoped that systerrtic
study of hunan sera frut differert aources will determing if serus AFF concun-
In addition, the role of environsental factors such as hormonal influençes on
the production of omcodevclolmental gene prh.is can be further explored in
different sy:tens. Such data implics tha! (he prodiu tion of oicocavelopmental
gene producis by turor cells is net a fixed property of a given tumor but is
We look fonrard to workina with ycu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the important subject of oncodeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinones exposure.

subject to environmçrtal controls.

expression.
Best regards,
Stewart Sell, H.D.
Professor
SS/nb

-