Vol. 285 No. 23

EDITORIALS

1517

The New England
Journal of Medicine
Official Organ of
The Massachusetts Stedical Society
Founded in 1812 as the NEvr ESGEAND JOUNAL, oP
MEDICINE AND SURGERY and continued in 1828 as Vol. 1 of
the BosTos MEDICAL AND SUAGICALJOUANAL
PUBLISHES WEEKLY BY TE COSNTTEE oN PUBLICATIONS
or THE MASSACHUSETT: MEDICAL SOCIETY
Claude E. Welch, M.D., Ghninsan
Joseph Carland, M.D., EDIToR EMERITUS
Franz J. ingelfinger M.D., EDIToR
ASSOCIATE EDroas
George S. Richardson, M.D., BooR REVIEWS
Robert O'Leary, ASSISTANT EDIToR
EDITORTAL BOARD

ACTION ON ASBESTOS
ASBESTOS workers are unintentional victims of
industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary
fibrosis, pleural calcifcation, mesotheliomas andlung
cancer. Asbestos exposure is now
wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the
lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex-
posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or
ferruginous bodies may be, there is no doubt that
electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers
ease in the general population at this time, the
presence of asbestos le their lungs is disturbing.
Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction
most chemical and physical means and can float
freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods.
sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must
be made now, on the basis of "reasonable probabili-
ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition
These thoughts are reinforced by the work of

involving not

air but also widespread,
drinking water.

only

Alexander Marble. MD,
Samucl Proger, ML.D.

Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al-
Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-

by

Jane F. Desforges, 6
Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.

Ronald A. Malt, M.D. Asbestos discases have a long latent period, 20
Arnold L. Smith, M.D, years or more. We therefore believe that more

of dose-response relations.

Robert E, Johnson, 9
Norman 2 Levinaky, M.D.
Francis D, Moore, M.D,
Charies a Sanders, M.D,
Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D.
Ronald A. Arky, M.D.
Dana L. Farniworth, M.D.

John w. Lidefield, M.D, Murphy and associates in this fssue of the Journal
Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, (p 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved 5
Louis Weinstein, M.D, new ship construction include better
John R. David, M.D. exposure data and Indicate a high incidence of as-
Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. pestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have
Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-

usual
than

Howard Bleich, M.D,

Isadore N. Rosenberg, MD.
Milion d Paige.Jr. BUSINESS MANAGER

tions. A second study of Murphy et al. reports two
cases of pleural disease (one mesothelloma) E
workers who sanded asbestos floor tiles. Since the

AVTHORS preparing manuscripss for submission 1o the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au-
ual should consult "Information for Authors." This material thors simulated the working eanditions and found
may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour- conçentrations of ET Gbers per millliter 'of room
CASE REFORTS, usually published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours Inhales some OI Abers every
gence" section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled
cine : covered by copyright, The Jourwal docs not hold itself A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation-
REPRENTS: The Journal does not ssock reprints of the artl- tion of those who ane exposed In their occupations.
ALTHOLGH all advertising material accepted is expected s biologic effects and the physica! characteristics of
SUBSCRIFTION PRICES (worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with :
interns, residents $7.50 peryear). Rates are in U.S. fundsonly, confidençe." Although we endorse these recommen-
MICRORILSE volumes available to regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for
through University Microfilms, 31S N. First Street, Ann technical controls based on existing
COMNUNICATIONS should be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as-
land Journal of Mediçine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other Aibers and analysis of their effects

nel, or * may be obcained from the Joumial office. The entire air. This concentration is less
including references, should be typed double
space, pue all material, including figures, should be submit- used
reference to articles reporting closely related cases. A very Rbers remains in the
short case report or a description of a technic submitted a a
"BRiCr RECORDINC" should be limited to 500 words.
MATERLAL printed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period.
responsible for statements made Ag any contribusor.
NOTICES should be received not later than noon on Mon-
day, 24 days befone date of publication.
cies published. Requests should be sent to the author.
imply endorsement by the Journal,
Arbor, Michigan 48106.
chusetis 02115.

1/5 of
than
currently
these
lung,
figures suggest that
has called for control
panel
needed
urgently
"If a
knowledge.

manuscript,
ted in duplicate.

threshald

limit values. A fiber per milliliter of
room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per
an alarming number will still accumulate over a "OI
of asbestos emissions at the source and for protec-
The report also calls for further rescarch on the

 Academy of Sciences

conform so ethical medical standards, acceptance docs not asbestos fbers; such data are

on cells and tissues are important and must be con-