Mutations E signal transduction pathways
and inherited diseases Paolo Sassone-Cors and Emiliana Borrelli
NOTICE:
PROTECISD THISMATERIAL MAY BE EYCOPYRIGHT LAW TITLE17US CODE
CNRS-INSERM, Strasbourg France
Intracellular signal transduction pathways have central roles in processes such as growth, diferentiation, neurotransmission and development. The aberrant expression of components of various signal transduction pathways has profound consequences for cellular functions. Recent findings indicate that many cases of neoplasia and inherited diseases have, at their roots, mutations in key steps of signalling pathways. Current Opinion in Cenetics and Development 1992, 2:455-458
Introduction
Troubles in the nucleus
A prerequisite for normal cell growth and differentiation le that 8 cell must be able to receive, interpret and re-
In the nucleus, many transcription factors 3 as AP-1 [7-), NF-xB [8), CREM (-6] and SRF (10) have been iden-
spond appropriately 01 signals sent both from other cells dfied as the final targets of signal transduction pathways. and from their environment. The plasma membrane is Some of them are constiruted by oncoproteins, like Fos the extemal interface of the cell that bears many elements and Jun for AP-1 '[-4] and Rel for NF-xB (11). Yet other required for the primary analysis of such signals. Among oncogenic products have been found to have important interact specifically with a variety of compounds. Binding of Myc, Myb and ErbA fET Correct transcription initia- ofa ligand to its receptor initiates a cascade of events that tion relies upon cooperation between these various fac- trol lof gene expression. By altering the spectrum of genes the regulatory activity of nuclear oncoproteins have been expressed, the cell appropriately adapts its physiology o found 01 respond to various signalling systems (14-,15), a given stimulus. Aberrations 5 this process can lead to and as such PInoo be considered as transcriptional anti- nesis. Two major signal transduction pathways, which A striking example of how inherited diseases and neo- use cyclic adenosine monophosphate (CAMP) and dia- plasia can be associated with a specific transcription fac- cylglycerol (DAG) as secondary messengers, exist [1,23). tor defect concems the disease Wilm's tumour (16-. In Each pathway is characterized by its specific protein ki- the USA, among children under 16 years of there nase, protein kinase A (PKA) and protein kinase C (PKC), are 350 new cases of Wilms' tumour diagnosed age, every respectively, although a large number of kinases has been year. Congenital abnormalities associated with Wilms' membrane receptors and cytoplasmic and nuclear com- of the genitalia and neurofbromatosis (NF). The mode ponents are responsible for the fine modulation of gene of inheritance is autosomal dominant with variable pen- expression [5j. Significantly, oncogenic products 8 etrance [17). In the past, this kind of neoplasia has been cupy pivotal positions in all the pathways of intracellular explained by a 'two-hit mutation model, in which the for cellular physiology and metabolism. The past year has is located at the Wilms' tumour locus (11p13), has been 3 many important advances in our understanding of ckoned and characterized. It is postulated 09 be a cumour
these elements are membrane receptors that are able to functions at the level of
regulation, as in the cases
modulate a variety % cellular functions including the con-
tors [13-). In 'uopppe proteins that negatively modulate
deregulated cell proliferation and ultimately tumourige- oncogenes.
identified to date [4). A myriad of interactions between signalling [6-), graphically demonstrating that aberrations in transducing systems can have dramatic consequences the links between defective signal transduction and dis- ease. In this revies we will focus on some key examples that represent paradigms of this phenomenon.
tumour include aniridia, hemihypertrophy, malformation loss of a functional gene product resulted from muta- tion at homologous loci. Recently the wtl gene, which suppressor gene and encodes a nuclear protein that in- teracts with specific DNA promoter clements by means of a zinc finger-containing domain (16-). The Wilms"
Abbreviations
CAMP cyclic adenosine monophosphate CFcystic fbrosis: CFTR-CF transmembrane regulator, CE-cAwP-reponive elements: DAG-dacy'gycerok CAP-ciPaseactiating proteing Gprotein GTP-binding protein; N_nevrofbromatoix PKA- protein kinase A; PKC-protein kinase a WT--Wilms tumour.
Current Biology Lad ISSN 0959-437X
455
2031367951
