LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday, March 20, 1977
ALOOK ATTESTS
Ta fudse 6y the torrent R protés thc FDA has received, a sizable por- the. calorie-coumting . 'agrees. Long accustomed 6 a cross , firs: A ariticism from industry and a consumer activists, the FDA has been besieged by citizen demands to liber- ate saccharn. And moves areafcot in - Cangress 3 amend the. Foad: and.: $ Drug Acte e N E fe  There'sbeen atrementouscute) : from alLaver the country,: an EDA spokesman a Washington said: "T ranges from anguish to anger-Weve. fnever been this busy." Mess * a The FDA: for its part: saysit was Foniy doing what the -law. required law-speciically the Dela- : nay clause Congress inserted.in the. : Food and Drug Act ir 1958 says thats additive-shail be deemed. cancer E mpm ar animat eyidence afcancert a hamins
The
e a may
Ban-on Saccharin: 10V Why BOBEE E4 GT - Times W, lence wter Does it make 6 ase 8 ban a popuias focd additive an he strength of whzt and. happens when - hundred rats E oifsprings buze doses? . : 4 Calorie Contral Couneit, Inc. R. focdind drink, bas spent thousandss a ministration foz its decision s ban sweetener cureatly B the malket  aven the Vi E willing to admit thère's a basic difference between s. : rats and humas % ane such adin the. MAL Strset Jourmal-ohserved. ESI- fust anocher ex mpie df the arbitrary matire aibig guremment: a
tion af
public
staAn! the ogc of seem.to the general public, medica researchers say: that the animal A a periments upan-which such regtiiato-a decisions are basèd do have -ues a sibier rationale- and that they S have a directrbearing. .on risk 8. bur 5I true, researchers zcknowieds thattherats at thecenter af this fur are consumed each day the saccharin : de equivalent 8 reughiy1.0cO eans Vzo : lowicalorie soit drinkc: But they-con- siderit misleading- not dishonast- touggest as the éalcrie commeil bas that tis disparity makes the researci 7. trélevant 8. hurans. 1 - who a People drink oniy 'one can ayiai ad saccharin soft drink'rn a a 'comparably lower risk af cancer. But fn a EI27D million geople, the collectize population hazard could stil add. thousand - uptoseveral cases ai hlad dercancer: : snc Dau :i - EMforeover, scientists note, a de men * that led tha € ban
mans. 4
. 1 E
eat a additive in da SAndthe
: trade
poficod)
Aflanta thinks nat. The argani- 5 tobe safe : it E found after Kms: aatim, whose 00005 annual budget whfch are appropriate forthe evalua comas - manufacturers ai dietary a tion of the safetaf food additives:to afdellars E thelast few days for B-mmy Maduce * Taé ciause doesnot allow fara aba 1 page newspaper ads across the coun- 54 anmin a afris - md benerit. Nar dces it Ey-berating E Food and Drug Ad- : rédlire: the- ban 5 E B based 8
saccharin, d the : aniy -nonnutritive  - Eskicii
7035437
0087432
TIMN
