K

SYMPTOMS AND THE INKIAINOHIANSOHDIA IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME. A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43

 a cross-sectional investigarion in one building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validased
complains associaied with the "sick building syndrome" questionnaire. The symproms were more commoa le build-
were measured on e linear analog I quesionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and
Ar che same time. the micro-environment (envirornental humidification, irrespective of the * of the I A
characteristics in the breaching zone I : area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air
samples) E characierized Aq measuring temperenre, Auenb parameters : not described. Skov et a (1967) es-
relacive hamidiry, respirable papuadms "moud 8 pouru indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern Danish
bon dioxide, noise level, lighring inuensiry, relacive har to halls and 14 older control buildings. A level of 1
midiry, and airflow. No relarionship E seen berween toms was related 01 "fcecing" factor (carpets, upholsery.
e degree of sympioms and age. I or duration and horizontal surfaces) Ead the "macro-moleculer I
of employment at the building or time nads in che 1 1 of dust. They aiso demonstrated a relationship berween
hn on a daily  Siaristically, complaint MnE the oumber of hours spent photocopying and using carbonless
significandly more frequent I Spyowr  Envi- Adoo paper and the level of complaints. Other srudies have
ronmental characierisics associaied with 2 increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985)
complaint levels in chis group included decressed airflow 3 prychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) cootribute
models, chene a an association berveen agadra as- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome bs mea-
pended particulates and che levels of bock maCONE I suring soiduks and enviroamental exposures. Robertson et
brane pv sysemic complaints. Satisfaction $ e R (1965) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif.
I exvironment as predicied wopdd oféngt ferences ls the concentrations of eaviroamental
alshough regression models & 1 : comyp  building. E studied the rooms with the f compl

(

velociry and increased. levels agaadrajo mdpapuadns 8 indoor air quality complaints.

diculases 7 dry-bulb semperanure. In regresion

Several studies have attempted 8 identify the actual

R nOE

I
ventileted
naturally
apain

clearly conribuse a she
I 3 independent of chermal I S
inensiry a also associated $
mudies of e sick building syndrome
L measures a idenaify prediciors of complaint in

of symprom, berween rooms ls a mechanically and a

-


I 3 used area samples. Skov et al. (1967) did I
vene strate a relationship between symproms and 8 area sn
I ples measuring dust & . "macro-molecular fraction,
Area samples is buildings E DoE be representative of
& exposures le different points le single I Physical
charscteristics such as windows and partitions, I
and shelving may influence air currents. Radiant E may

mahiple exposres simulaneoualy and include psycho- 5" E I

indoor spaces.
INTRODUCTION

Complaints sermed the "sick building syndrome" I lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally. I pol-
led 8 oumerous investigations in 8 last 15 yeart. They are hutants resukt from point sources, oE they will be diluted as a
thought o1 occur primarily le newly constructed # 1 subject a farther removed from the source. The micro 4
ings and, at least ls the past, were thought to be 8 to viroament around desks and within cubicles may have very
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Nevertheles, a different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroe
# variery of causes have been identified le specific settings. ment of a building. la addition, all applied occupational and
including inadequate temperature and relative bumidiry $ environmental health rescarch that attempes 0 relate # 8o
trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds bealth eflects suflers from the probiem E I is generally
and formaidehyde. microorganisms, eaviroamental sobecco measured at several poiats in time and then extrapolated to <
smoke, pesticides,  entrainment of vehicie I 8 allow development of exposure classifications : decades
spent E conuaminated air and boiler I fibers released * most health eflects are messured as . single I of
from & linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures. Where the variability of I
A group of investigators from Great Britain (Finnepan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom
et a 1964) 1 that these complaints were related pri- day to day but from hour 1o hour. such a stratepy must fail.
(Robertson et al. 1985) was unable o identify diflerences in attempsed 1o characterire air-quality parameters in the micro-
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperarure (temper- eaviroament and set these characteristics le relation o a
ature). relative humidity. air velocity. formaldehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at . given point ls time. This
itive or nepative ions between several rooms in a building report preseats results of a cros-sectional investigation of a
with narural and - building with mechanical ventilacion, problem building using a self-administered, E analog.
where both à of rooms had high leveis of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
E I a Aasisuant Prolessor of Medicine and ol Industrial and Eaviroamental Heakth Sciences at the Universry of I School
of Medicine and Publc Heahh. ' f a Director. Eaviroomental Heakth and Salery. Camepie-Mellon Univerty. Pirburgh. FA.

(Kreiss and Hodpson 1964; Hodgson 3 Kreiss 1966).
marily 01 mechanical ventilation. E same group of authons

results is greater than the difference in average samples, and
No investigations in the peer-reviewed litersrure I

à

ficicer) /kpyc/S 3us,