LOS ANGELES TIES
Los Angeles, Californio
October 20, 1954
a been proved,
lale
Lniversity

hainl uudn the premise that binatinn " a partirular type
1 snaneetinn hetween rica in each nfthe three categaries
Calls rrr : smoking and disease ha: has alrcady produced 'a safe
Might Take Sis Months one it is. so all can be made
Dr. a Cuyler Hammond. that way. If not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Clarence Caok Litte,
compiete statistical study to chairman of the scientific ar-
date. said that "some say we sisnre bnard and seient fie di
should wait for more defini rector a the Toiarne Indus.
tive evidence before develop- trs Research Committee. de.
ing R safe cigarette. but no les which he helieves wnulrt
nne hassaid just what the de- prndiure some nf "he defni
finitive ejdence wauid be." live evidence" S wiaich Dr
He sand he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In his salk 1n the Ameriran "We wiil Tarkle simultan
ssstem was more important, line of the industrv's research
might prove surcessfal in *ix dn not havn today the experi
months, "wirh lck," he said menta! evidence that wilger-

cigarette 11, so. seientific re-
scarch should prove which
should find one, "since
ple like to smoke cigarettes."
seribed the outlines nf siad-
Tackle Unknewns

Expert
for

atatistician

peo-

Safe
Cigaretfes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming

NEW YORK. Ort. 61 (ILP) this viewnoint.

The rvidence connecting cig- Cancer Snciets meeting. Dr eously mans o! the unknowns
arette smoking with bath Hammon sairf the relation in this field of tobaccn 1Ie in
lung cancer and heart dis- ship nf rigarette smoking to relation to human health," he
case is "overwhelming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out
something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definit've
once abour developing "a safe health, than the relationship 'findings in an area where
cigarette, : a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to much suggestive sork has
cal scientist told the annual find "a safe eigarette" from heen done. The program nf
meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recngnizes tha: wn
tihe advisory board of the There are various types ol garding the rause anri rFers
Tobaccn Industry Research tnhacen, there are varinus relationshn hetween rrv ri-
Committec ansnunced some of types R. fiters, and these are mental factors, including
the details nf EUs seicarife re varinus santius n! curing The most important

Cancer Society today.
At the same time the scien-

Outlines Deseribed

mit scientific conclsyons PA.
smnkine and lune cancer
current lung eancer rases in
10 medical centers in tle Lnt
ed States and Canada

srarch
prngram

which tobaren, he sair. and it may

nrnsert

b he that some fortuitanis rnm- set up was a direet xcudy . nf

LC ANGE LES EXAMINER
los Angeles, California
October 20, 1954

It will include numerous
studies of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers.
as well as tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. The apecirie research
grants, financed Aq the TIRC,
will be announced later.

HEALTHSTUDY
ON TOBACCO
NIW YORK. Oet. 19-4P)
A broad stc point study seek
ing knowledge whether eigarets
or other forms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health haz.
ards was announced today.
It is the first announcement
of a big research proxram
headed by the selentitie ad.
visory board of the Tobacco In
dustry Research Committen

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062