4 -
A - -
- Piv 3
Carcinageneal vul IS M EI rp2721-2725. n661
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino.-l-G-pyrid,l-1-butandne and benzolaipyrene: a potentially usefu! model for evaluation of
C3420
chemopreventive agents
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amenesn Fealth Foundation. Valhalla, NY 10595, USA
models examined to date (2). BaP is a protorype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the A/1 mouse because previous
The purpose of this study SCA to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluntion of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer le smokers, Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to by imshyhalireminooi-tntne (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined and benzofalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice 9 evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastric gavage (i-g-) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a aumber of intraperitoneal injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compound: against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and7.12-dimethylbenzldlanthracene (9,10). either 9 or 61 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse o evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The ig- route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than "d'y administration, (4.11.12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse can be replicnted because : avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl lisothiocyanate theinjection site and associated mortality, A dose-response (PEITC) la an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by ig. administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 rat (11,13). mice killed 9 or 61 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect 01 tobacco of #C. jmol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke. which contains at least 40 carcinogens (I), The have been expected extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important when given Aq the ig. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the muttiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 pmol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and subdoses i-g-, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we exomined tumos yields obtained dosing. This regimen induced 10.5:4.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP. given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ctiylisethiocyanate given 2 a prior de each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This fumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzy! isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP this study provlde a convenlent model for assessing the NNS wras synthesized is the Americas Heatth Foundacion Organic Synthesis efficacy of chemopreyentive agents against Sunt cancer Faeility. Ats purity was establihed by HPLC as >99. BaP (93% purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Healrh Foundution Research Animal Farility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirs containing S6 com oil, as previously 2 play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups ef 1S as sammarized in Table 1. At age 7 weeks. each mouse War kers: metiymivosaminol-oMOPAmA-IBIDmONs (NNK*) treated by inraperitoneal (ip) injection or by intragastric gavage (is) with and benzolalpyrene (BaP) S NNK is B potent pulmonary the appropriane chemical la 0. ml cononseed oil. NNK and BaP were bons carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in the 0.I ml used for treatment Injections and gavages were carried *Abbreslations: NNK. RIPtCeOSDOAMAwNT individuat dese was one-cighth of the cotal. Equimolar doses of NNK and aaP, benzel-lPyrens: PEITC, phencihyl isethiocyanaic: BITC. benzyl Bap were wsed le most of the combination 'sdmort bacause the amounts of
which these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/I mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP E combination was established in the that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
Most previous studies in the A/) mouse have examined We sought 01 develop a model which could be used to
Comparisons of
and BaP given individuatly showed representatives of the lung
in tobacco smoke
k
carcinogens
(I.
5.9:5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely induction by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inhibiting forcstomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
BITC (98% (Agnd and PEITC <9356 (Aynd were abtained from the Alirich Chemical Company (Milwaukee. WI. Cottonseed oll was purchased from Female AJ mice. age S wecks. were obtoined from The Jackson Laborsrory (Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the The desiga ofthe bioassay is allustrated la Figure 1. The mice were dividede out for 8 consecutive werks. The notal doses ae given in Tuble L Each- NNK and total carcinogenic polyayelic hydrocarbons in sobaceo smoke are
Sigma Chemlcal Co. (SA Losis, MO).
Introduction &
agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
à
isothiocyanse, ip. Intriperitoncal, : intragastric gavage.
00xfora Unvenity Press
2721
-
