100 East End Avanue Now MONOA York1CC28 Telophone (212) C28-6300
3
American Health Foundation
BOARD OFFICERS GF AND TAUSTEES Davie 4 Mahoney, Chairman President Nortan Sinan, Inc. Emest L Wynder, M.D., President Thomas * Ross, Jr., Sacratary Vice Presiden: Amarican Airlines, Inc. Warner 6 Cosgrova, Jr., Treasurer Partner B2 Shieics Company Trustees: Louis V. Aranson, I Prasident Ronson Corporation Mrs. Charles A. Dana Frederie d Dacker Presicent Decker Communicatiens, lnc. Senior Walter E. Panner Hansos Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Ca. George James, M.D, Dean The aunoy Sinai Schoo! of Medicine walliam J. Levint Chairan ot the Soard Levitt & Sons, Ine. G. walism Mcore Fieidarest Pres-dent MillsInc. JeseshM, Murha Presidest Sandgran. - Murha, Ine. Robant Maxwasl R. M. Pauley Ribb Partner Stroock & Stroock a Lavan Erecutire Davie L Davies. Vice Presicant Jsvits 2 Javita Genpaal Counset
July 7, 1970
G. F. Todd, Esq. Tobacco Research Council Glen House, Stag Place London, s.W.1 England
Dear Mr. Todd:
In recent talks with Dr- Carl G. Baker, Director of the National Cancer Institute, the desirability of forming an international study group concerned with research into tobacco and health problems was discussed. This letter is to invite you on behalf of your organization to participate in this The proceedings will aim at providing the relatively few active investigators in tobacco. and health research programs with an opportunity to discuss freely current and future research programs with the intent of reaching common objectives more quickly. The group will be composed of investigators primarily involved in tobacco and health research oriented towards producing less harmful smoking products. The partici- pants must be both willing and able to share with other investigators what is being learned from their current activities and openly discuss plans for future research in the field. It is thought that by bringing such a dnozb of experts together to review ongoing studies and to plan future investigations jointly less harmful tobacco products will be available sooner and costly research projects will not be duplicated unneces- sarily. The meetings would be held at yearly intervals with the different organizations acting as host.
information and study group.
