WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRIBUNE D. 25,605 - S. 49,326 WACO METROPOLITAN AREA MAR S 836!
FC Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard-- Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission fron going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarctte So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it does not scem right or logical that one medium of advertising be forbidden the producer whilc displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal and to look again at the federal law, which expires Junp 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC sald i= is proposing to refuse licenses to broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising because of evidence that smoking is injurious to hcalth and thc FCC has an obligation le protect the public intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals to do as they please so long as thcy don't harm ancther. It also is a "good example of the misguided philosophy that if you don't mention somefhing. maybe de won't Congressman Paul Rogers, Hlorida Democrat, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com- merce Commitice, said in reference to the proposed FCC rule that the ngancy had overstepped the bounds of its nuthority. He said he douits that FCC has any riglit 0) tell an advertiser winat he could not say in Jis advertisements. Rogers said Congress will take a close Icok: at the whole question o! regulations on television and radio ndvortising content, not only as 01 the Federal Communications Commission but in regard to Federal Trade Commission practices as The stakes invalved extend beyond the business of broadcasling. They 03 to the heart of whether government burcaus should he allowed to 03 beyond
advertising. a
billboards and counter
C newspapers, magazines,
Hazardous to Your Heakh.
hurt you and will disappear.
well. 3
the limits of dus proccss and thc law.
