Genetic Epidemiology 5:265-275 (1988)

Estimating Genetic Parameters of Survival
Distributions: A Multifactorial Model

Joanne M. Meyer and Lindon J. Eaves

Department of Human Genetics, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond
For a number of genetically influenced illnesses, age of onset is correlated between
relatives. bn some cases, age of onset also serves : an index of an individual's
inherited liabiliry t0 an illness. Typically, survival models for age of onset distri-
butions do not allour for these effecte. We have used the gamma distribution as the
basis of a model which specifies genetic variabiliry in aBe of onset. Specifically,
we aliow the hazard frequency parameter of the gamma distribution to be a
monotonic function of an individual's inherited liabiliry 9 an illness.
under various gamma models indicate that age of onset correlations may be
strikingly different from correlations in liabiliry. Maximum likelihood estimation
procedures were used te obtain parameter estimates from simulated data sets and
o1 deiermine whether a le possible to discriminate hetveen gamma processes of
different order. The results for 1,000 pairs of twins 00s) monozygotic and 500
dizygotic) gave parameter estimates that were fairly accurate but that decreased b5
precision as the order of the gamma process increased. We discuss the effect Chis
may have on inferences made about age of onset.
Key words: age of onset correlations. survival models. gamma distribution

rompd

Simulations

INTRODUCTION

Genetic analyses of illnesses and behaviors showing a variable age of onset
require a knowledge of the cumulative probability of onset by given ages. Some
approachès [Weinberg. 1915; Stromgren, 1938; Risch, 1983) derive this probability
from prior age of onset distributions. Others (Elston, 1973; Heimbuch et al., 1980;
Risch, 1983) estimate parameters of a cumulative age of onset distribution from the
data. When the data allow its use, the latter method le more appealing since specific

Received for publication January 11, 1988; revision accepied April 22, 1988.

Address reprint request 1e Joanne Meyer, Department of Human Geneties, Bos 33 Medical College of

Virginia, Richmond, VA 23298.
1988 Alan R. Liss, Inc.