24

Flu/PP

JT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Ne York Times Servicy

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars A

made cigarettes last year, ringing became E issue even in recent

($2.86) compared with 22
panies can advertise on TV after
cigarettes and
an aggressive campaign. Television
gifus,"
pe

was out-
lawod 5 the
States in 1971.
junior high

old Cigarette packages sold in
13ycars
and VaI must carry a label Br
sake & health, doa't smoke 100
to
E
with than the health-warning labels
jou 0 mucb because of the adver.
tising as because they Are of better
manufactur- qualty and taste better. American

TAIPET - The Marlboro coW dn sales of $119 million. ln 1986, trade talks between the United 1 Taiwan dollari E cents)fora
boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Suaics and Taiwan. Wang Chicn- pack of Taiwan-made cigareites.
ghing from his mouth, has come No eign ciparettes Dow hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan'sdeputy minister of The limits o0 cigarette advertis
town. His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered A ing in Japan are more liberal. Com-

and dod-pur-on stores through- u cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
guitar-playing. pep-sura promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted
This frenetic, fast-growing GA cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that
billion cigarettes last dropped long-siandiog restrictions. are now smoking How can
rubstantial number of them were lamsoo Tobacco Corp. exports ol like that? Ic's OK. to
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year, re joy a $16 voma trade
ialand, and tbat has created 2 furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year that."
Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled American cigarette
tbe American companics of entic- the past year. Tbe market share
ing teen-agers uake da mmoking. more than bs
* charge the American companies frons 3 percent percent 5 1986,
The sorermeasadmininterd dicts that it could grow 9 15 8. 20 sales pitch.
operation that had monopolized percent Kq 1992.
.presrure from Washingion. In the alcohol.
ycar since stiff reetrictions 00 for. "This really burts our
cign cigarettes WETE dropped. sales said Jaw
have soared,
-peapod growth American man-
1
sfacturens at time when sales 5i export Taiwan? Younger
laws :
way 'dn

001 this city, next to posters aa peroeni.
a
Winston
of
cigarettes.
tion of
nearly 20 million pcopie
amoked 34

amusement placesto 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

most
for f the
in American
growth
ly because

a3 said recently. "Many scbool- advertising of

both Tuwan and Japan school students - 12,

year and for the first time, : According to the Brown P Wu- rette companies promote ciga- roughly translated, says, "For the
brands to Taiwan. American man- sulting 5 $i billion is new sales. the United States. But surplus those people mandated in the United States.
Wactures have essentially intro- InJapan, which has . population are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe companies Amencan
paonp cigarette advertising to the of 120 million and where people, man,. human being.you woo't do cigarettes are selling S in Taiwan

Made la America, not Taiwan. all American-made

cigarettes occupy the whole markets. We en- mucb" a warning much milder

Ammerican cigarettes increased E vigorously deny there is Any-

e
botly deny.

SBE
last


thing wtong, with the way they are cigareties are made of blended to-
promoting their products and bacco and have less whicb tar than Tai-

are not

Department of Agriculture pro- thry have no plans to change Es wtrcse bleoded. cigarettes,

Tbey are not allowed to advertise
s small storcs where cigarettes are
sol, as well as through promo-
a feelinga," legisiator. tions. Cigarette manulacturen may
don cxocods 200,000.
-
EE

thec cigarette market had not adver- Taiwan officiak they rosent lon television or in newapapers. Nor
A government agreed de allow markets :o producta that éndanger They can advertise only througb
-others into the business oaly under pcople's health, like cigarettes and postershung near cigarette racks of
a American cigarettes B Taiwan . tbe United Shau-kong Sutes docs not en- also place 120 ada a year 5 mAgA
the Unitod States are way down and femaics are smoking a 9. Bdore last & forcign ciga-
and & number of anti-smoking causc of American E They hire retlas accountod R leas than 1
According to the U.S. Depart- arettes froe in sgapuu W's Kma dgarettes, banaed imporis at ag
asert & Agrioulture, people B Tai- difficult lor young boys d resis, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed 01 sell

tised, altbough it does now,

American pressure E9 open their have they pusbed to do 10, they SaY.

much- courage its people to amoke, why rines, cach d whose groulation acl-
young. attractive po-ak-6L girla oent o( tbe market. Taiwan
Suuvas short skirts 01 give 1p à posed strict quotas on forcige
and then it becomos a habit. I cigarettes and lmposed stiff tariffs.

Ne

&A

immorl."

: rerult, imported ciparetine cost