True-False Questlons 8 the Chenistry and hycylgiegsL.o and Flavor 1. TF Song nodern workers suggest that nocurate mensurement of vibrational frequency (in the far Intrared, for exanple) of an unknown odorant will pernit prediction of its quallty and intenslty. T E No elenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone hos any odor; Instead they react with the mucoss foraing new products whlch are smellod; but T F Sone odorants have sterlc or vibrational propertles which force the concluslon that they are odorless whon they are not. 11. T F Present evidence strongly suggests thet different parts of the olfactory receptor ares, IIke tho retina In he eye, are quellty-specifie. TF Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor 7F No one yet has a fir clue as fo the criticot relation between the molecule and the receptor which permits an odor perception. TF The greeter the secretion rate of nucous or sallve, the higher their pH, and both pHI and tomperature influence the quallty of sensafion in the 111. TF The Ideal instrumentel detector would respond to odors in the sane quantitetlve range as does an eninal or human subject. TF Such an Ideat detecror has not been developed. IV. : lhaan observors with head In fixed position cen by virtue of the two Indopondent nostriis easily discern stereo Sinoll effects, 1.e. they can tell whofier a odoront Is at the right or left hand, much as one uses nis two cars In locating the source of a sound. 1 For certaln musk-like compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger a hunon olfactory response. 'A TF Adaptation to one olfactory Qunlity does not sipnificently reduce sensirivity to any ofher dissiei lar Quality, but does reduce sensi- ivity to all similor quelities. TF By employing a similerities nethod of comparing qualitles, one can nowr obtain Identity and degrees of difference without recourse to irohlo- vi. TF Hunger lowers thresholds slightly to some food qualltios but not for TF Ir is no possibie to Identify the Intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull simply by experi examination of the electrophysiolegleel record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons. 1 F Electrical stimuletion of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a Mactalllc" or "alkaliné" quality. T $ Direct electricel stimuletion of the olfactory senso has nover yer beon successfully eccomplished. vII. TF Although tofal anosala is rare In humans and ageusia even rarer, there is evidence that In analogy to color vision deflciences, sone people are Insensitive to (only certain) quallties while having normal sensitivity to others. 1 F Topical anesthetics applled to the tongue show that different quelltles T F Certaln endocrine disesse entitles nake It possible for sone people quire sensitively to "snell" such "odorless" sutistences as sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to nonsal by eanipuletion of endocrine levels. TF Pronenopausal wonen at the tIne of ovulation fInd certaln odors extremely disegreeable while at ofher rInes In the menstrun! cycle these same odors
sone elenents possess taste.
surface In order to be snelled.
chemica! senses.
sone words. others.
5
of taste disappear at different rates.
they will Judge quire pleasent.
oMI A V
