E/u/P9

IHT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
New rerk Timer Servir

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotioo about 80 New Taiwan dollars .
made cigarettes last year, ringing became an issue even in recent pack (98'25) compared with 22

TAIPEI The Mariboro coW- up sales of 611S million. l '9861 trade talks between the United New Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for
boy in his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- States and Taiwan. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghng from his mouth, has comr tr eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis
town. His picture adoms kiocks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs. registered * ing Ss Japan are more liberal Com-
guitar-playing jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted pive out golo free cigarettes and gifts, an aggressive campaign Television
This frenetic, fast-growing na- cigurette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lrwod in the United Suttes in 1971.
tioc of nearly 20 million pcople ly because both Tawaa and Japan school students - 12, i3 years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-standing restrictions. are DOW smoking How can e and Taiwan must carry label that,
year and for the first time, E According lo the Brown & Wil- rette companics promote cigareties roughly traoslated, says, "For the
mbstantial number of them were limmso Tobecco Corp. exporta of like that? It's O.K. to have them sake of health don't smoke 100
made .s America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- mucb" warning much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy $16 billion trade surplus with thap the health-warning labels
brinds to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $i uomig in new sales. the United States. But those people mandated in the United States.
Waccurers have essentially intro In. Japan, which has . population are juat like robbers. If you are A Tbe 'oompanies say Amencan

and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 1 strong protest.

panies can advertise on TV after

oul this city. next to posters o . peroent.
o of Winston cigarettes.

Suy amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

for most of the growth Sn American be said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-

of 120 million and where people

duced cigarette advertising to the
tbe American companies of entic
ing teen-agers 01 unke da moking.
. charge tbe American companies
operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992.
the cigarette market bad not adver-
tised, altbough =: does now,
The government agreed to allow
.proerure from Washington. In the alcobol.
year since stiff restrictions oc for.
& cigarettes were dropped.
have soured, generating much-
sfacturers it . time when sales in
the United States are down
and tbe number of anti-smoking
laws is way 'dn

"urt . human being. you won't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan

ialand, and tbar has created furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes R year. that.
Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled F

not o1 mucb because of the adver-
tising as because they are of better
quality and taste beiter. American
with the way are cigarettes are made of blended to-
and bacco snd have less tar than Tai-

ube past year. Tbe market share &f American cigarette manufactur-
is
American cigarettes increased 5 5 vigorously deny there any-
more than percent last year, thing wtong
they
from 3 percent in 1986, aod the promoting their products say
Department of Agriculture pro - ihry have no pians to change ther wancse cigarettos,
Tbey are not allowed to advertise
television newapapers Nor
Taiwan officials say tbey resent oo
or .g
American pressure to open their have they pusbed sodo s0, thry say.
markets te products that éndanger Tbey can advertise only through
5 small stores where cigarettes arc
sold, R well as
sales "This really burts our feclinga,
through promo-
said Jaw Shau-kong a
tions. Cigarette manu/acturers may
zines, o whosc drculation acl-
cacb
export to Tawwan? Younger
doon exooods 200,000.
and females are
a los
Bdfors last
forcign ciga-
smoking
yerr,
roorie
young attractive
oent of tbe market. Taiwan im-
pho-r00666! girla
immoral.
A rerult imporied cigarcti cost

10

whicb are not

boly deny.

The govermmccl-ddministeee dicts that it could grow to SI to 20 sales pitch.

blended.

.oterr into tbe business oaly under people's health. like cigarettes and posiers hung near cigaretie racks or
. American cigarettes in Taiwan R.. ube United Suses docs legisiator. not en- aiso place 120 ads a yeur in maga-

peaded growth for American man- courage its people to amoke, why

way

caus of American ada. They hire rettos accounred for lcas than per-
wearing short skirts 6. give "p dit- posed strict quotas on forcip
and then it becomes - babit. It's cigarettes and ieposed stif tariffs

According to tbe U.S. Depart- arettes free in nightclubs k's 3 cigarettes, banned imports at ube
mbat of Agriculture, people in Tai- difficult for young boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed to sell

0/4/9000Sz

-
3