True-raise Questions on the Chenistry and Psychophysloiogy, of Odor and Flavor
la H Sone nodern workers suggest that nccurate mensurement of vibrationa!
frequency (in the for infrared, for exemple) of ve unknown odorant
will permit prediction of iss quality nnd intensity.
T No elenentel substance, not even halides or ozone hos eny odor; Instead
they react with the mucose forning new products which are sme lled; 2
T. J Sone odorants have steric or vibretional propertles which force the
cone luslon : they are odor less whon they are not
11, - Present evldence strongly suggests thet different parts of the olfactory
receptor area, Ilke the retina te the eye, are qua ilty-spocific.
T Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (1iquid system) nor the receptor
A No one yet has a -r clue as to the critical reletion between the
molecule and the receptor which permits en odor perception.
T The greater the secretion rate of rucous or selive, the a gher their "Hd
and both H0 and temperature influence the quallty of sensation in the
111. T The ideat Instrumental detector would respond to odors in the saue
quantitative range as doon an a 1 or human sub ject.
1 3 Such en Ideal detector hes not heen developed.
-eaa observors with head In fixed position cen Aq virtue of the two
Indopondent nostrils eesily discern stereo snall effects, 1.e. they
can tell whetier - odor on is et the right or left hand, auch es one
uses his two ears in locating the source of à sound.
T For certain musk-1 ike compounds, forty molecules ar sufficlent to
trigger 4 humon offact ory response.
v. - Adeptation oi one olfactory unb lity does not significantly reduce
sensitivity to ony other dissiei lar quality, but dors reduce sensi-
tivity to all sint lor quelities.
T By employing a simiierities nethod of conpering qualities, one con now
obtain Identity and degrees of difference without recourse to troble-
vi, 1 Hunger lorers thresholds stight ly to some food qualities but not for
1 :t is now possible to identify the intensity and quality of a certain
given stimull simply by expert examination of the electrophysloiogice:
record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons.
T Electrical stimuletion of taste in man yields only reports of "sour"
end a "metalllc" or "alkaline" quality.
T J Direct electrica stimulatlon of the olfactory senso has
successfully accompilshed.
VII. T 5 Although total anosela is rore In humans and ageus le even rarer, there
is evidence that in analogy to color vision deficiences, some people
are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while having nornal
sensitivity to others.
T Topical anesthetics appiled to the tongue aho that di fferent quelities
1 Certain endocrine disease entitles make = possible for some people
quite sensitively to "snel!" such "odor less" substances 0s sucrose or
sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both teste and odor can be
reduced to normal by eanipuletion of endocrine levels.
T 4 onenopauss wonon at the time of ovulation fInd certain odors extrenely
disegreeable whlle at other tiees In the menstrua cycle these seme odors

sore elenents possess taste.

surface In order to be smet Iled.

chemica! senses.

IV.

sone -or ds.
others.

yer beon

50

of toste disappear at different rates,

they wil Judge quite plessant.