DALLAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Texas April 14, 1954
Tobacco Firms New Cancer NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing Industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers. picture of the relationship of committee issued co causes lung cancer.
Ask Studies growers and tobacco toonal" statements linkdng smoking Among those quoted by the com- and Jung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer United States Gov- ernment, which said is . 1953 k cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of lung caneer for exhaustive research to estab- had not been established. Several lish the basic cause of the disease. ot the institute's scientists also Others quoted were the Damon a booklet con- Runyon Fund, which called for taining previously published state: more research, and Chicago a ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgeon Dr. Max Cutler, who ities doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons by. other cancer experts that tobac- deveiop lung cancer partly because may of smoking but that to accept 3 The earliest, whitten in 1923, sald conclusion of a direct there were irritants in tobacco but ie all cases is "unscientific relationslip and none that would produce turnors. hazardous." The most recent, dated lst March "It smoke is the lungs were 16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of be done before causes of lung can- have had it long ago, cancer, tbe all cer or any other kind of cancer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report Little, The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratory, Bar Har- S January te combat mounting bor, Maine. charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the up of nearly every major cignrette University of Texas School of Medi- manufacturer and organizations eine, the Metropolitan Life Inau
sided
Institute of the
The tobacco industry research were cited.
we'd a
can b establisbed.
director of the Roscoe B, Jackson ance Company and British authar- ities, Nearly all those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until an absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report Sea described b an industry spokesman as an # terim" statement, nouncement pending an- of the choice of a prominent scientist to supervise basic cancer research de be f- nanced by the industry. That scien- tist will decide how the industry's cancer-research money is to be spent, No date has been set for his selection. At the Jast count, the committee said; there were more than 850 cancer research grants 5 the United States alone, "any one of which might produce evidence to unlock the secrets of lung cancer,
CTO 138765
