PKV MEE
Carcinogenesis vel 15 MI 1s pp.2721-2725, ro61
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(-ppyrisy1)-1-butandne and benzo(a)pyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
C3420
chemopreventive agents
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Heath Foundation. Valhalla, NY 10595, USA
models examined to date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (1). We have chosen the A/J mouse because previous
The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents agninst lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction is A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression 01 by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(--py 1)-1-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined and benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastric adcard (i-g-) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of intraperitoneal injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis k9 NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and 1712-dimethylbenzzalanthraaene (9,10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the AJ mouse to evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The i.g. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4,11,12). Results obtained with the A/J mouse ear be replicated because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injectionsite and associated mortality. A dose response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung tumnrr induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/1 mouse and F344 rat (11,13) mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens This may not het realistic with respect 01 tobacco of 24 umol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important Comparisons of NNK and RaP given individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke à11 when given by the i-. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either were complicated by local tumor formation and mortalits, before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP. The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 umol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. in addition, the mode! should he relatively rapid and subdoses i.g, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive Therefore. we examined tumor yields obtained dosing. This regimen induced 10.5:4.4 lung adenomas/ upon trentment with NNK ond BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethy1istthiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzy! isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP. this study provide a convenlent model for assessing the NNK was synthesized in the American Hrath Foundadion Organie Synchesis efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Faeility. It purity was established la HPLC as >997. BaP (93% purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which Amencan Heaith Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirt containing $ comm oil. a previously 2 play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups sf 15 as sammarized in Table 1 At abe 7 weeks each mouse was kers: ououvnnq-1-(1ppuApp.0-E2-1--o0Reeers00300040mu)-- (NNK" treated by imtrperittnneal (ip. injection or by intragasrii gavage 5 with and benzo(alpyrene (BaP) € NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical ie 0. mi cononseed oil. NNK and BaP were both carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in the 0.1 E used for treatment. Injections and gavages were carrind 6 *Abbreslations: NNK. <ttmilyniirremiiooe1e---p9is/--1-ummmers indisiuuat dese was cne -igght of the rotal. Equimolar doses of NNK and aoP, benzolelnyrene: PEITC, phenethyl isorhiocyanate: BIIC benzyl Bar were wsed in most of the combination groups, because the amounts of
which these 011 tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the that Bal was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
Mos: previous studies in the A/I mouse have examined We sought to develop a model which could be used 0
5.9= 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
BITC (989 purity) and PEITC (93% purity) were obtained from the Aldrich Chemical Cempany (Milwaukce. wii. Cottonseed oll was purchased from Ferale A mice. age > werka wene obtained from The Jackson Laborarory (Bar Harbor, ME), They were housed under standard conditions in the The desiga of the bioassay i illustrated in Figure 1 à mice were divided out for & consecurive wecks Thr toral doses are gvven in Table L Each NNK and soral carcinogenie polycyelic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke are
Sigma Chemical Ce (S1 Louis, MO).
Introduction to
agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
isothiocyanae, p intriperitoncal, 4 intragatrie gavage.
o Oxford Unvverstty Press
2721
