WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRIBUNE
D. 25,605
S. 49,326
WACO MET:OPOLITAN AREA
MAR 9 1963

F.C Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard- Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission frona going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it
does not scem right or logical that ono medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer w hile
newspapers, magazines, billboards and cou ntc T
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
Junc 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC said it is proposirg to refuse Jicenses
03 broadcasters who carry cigarette advertisice
because of evidence that smoking is injuriour to hcalth
and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public
intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals to do
es they please 50 long as thcy don't harm another.
It also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that i you don't mention something. maybe it won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Hlorida Democret, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com-
merce Committcc, snid in reference to the proposed
FCC rule that the ngenc had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has
any right 01 tell an advertiser what he could not
say in his advertisements. Rogers said Congress will
take a close Icok at the whole question of regulations
on television and radio advertising contont, not ouly
as to the Federal Communications Commission but
in regard to Federal Trade Commissioo practices as
Thhe stakes involved extend beyond the busincss
of broadcasting. They go to the heart of whe:her
government bureaus Pinoys he allowed to go beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Healdh."

hurt you and will disappear.

b7
S822IEO4

well.

the limits of due proccsa and the law,