-
SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H. complainss associared with the sick building syndrome
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
et al. (1967) investigared the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire The symproms were more commos .s baild
In e cross-sectional invesngation in one building. office buildings built over the last 05 years with a validased were meacured & a linear analog scale questionnaire. dur where the ventilation system also provided cooling and Ar the same time the micro-environmen (environmental humidification. irrespective of the age of the buildings. A charactrrittire in the breathing zone 1 chan area direct relationship berween the level of complaints and air samples) - characierized by measuring temperanure, quality parameters was not described. Skov et z (1967) ex- relarive humidiry, respirable suspended particulases, car. amined indoor air quality symptoms is 14 modern I bon dioride, noise level, lighting inuensiry, relacive ka- town halls and 1 older control buildings. A I ol symp midiry, and airflow. No relarionship a seen benwer tomm was related 0I "deecing" factor (carpets, upbolsery. che degree of sympioms and age, educarion. or duration and horirontal surfaces) sad the "macro-moleculer compo of employment et the building or time spent in she buiid- nent" of dust. They aiso demonstrated . relationship between Sv on a daily basis. Starisrically,, complaines were the number of hours spent photocopying and using carbonless significandly more frequent among smoking men. Envi- copy paper and the level of complaints. Other stdies have ronmental characteristics associased 1 che increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et a 1985) complaint levels in this group included decreased airflww and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute models, chere - an association benween respirable au- cause of complaints is the sick building syndrome b I pended particulases and the levels of boch muccus mem- suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertoon et brane and rystemic complaints. Satisfaction wish she al. (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. thermal environment a predicted by perception of 1 ferences is the concentrations of environmental pollutants R nor clearty contribuue Q she degree of rymptoms, berween rooms is a mechanically and a naturally ventileted alshough regression models E I dhrr complaints building. They studied the rooms with the I comp were nor independent of chermal parameters. Liphting rates and used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did I inaensiry & also associated 1 complaints. J strate . relationship between symptoms and both area - mudies of dhe 1 building syndrome should examine ples measuring dust and . "macro-molecular" traction. again
a
velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended i to indoor air quality complaints
niculaees 7 dry-bulb semperanure. In regression
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
muliplle exposures simultaneously end include prycho in area samples. L meanures 9 idenaify predictors of complaints in
Area samples is buildings may not X representative of the exposures i different points in single rooms. Physical characteristics such : windows and partitions, computers, and sbelving may induence air currents. Radiam heat may different exposure characteristics thao the macro-enviroo-
indoor I INTRODUCTION
Complaints sermed the E building syndrome" have lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally. mout t led to numerous investigations in tbe last i5 years. They are hutants resuk from point souroes, os they will be diluted - thought to occur primarily S newty constructed oticce I subject .n farther removed from the source. A micro 4 inp and, at least in the past, were thought to be due to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very wide variety of causes have been identided .s specific settings, ment of building. is addition, all applied occupational and inctuding inadequate temperature and relative bumidiry 8 environmental bealth rescarch that sttempes to relate dose to trol, noise, lighting. vibration. volatile organic compounds beakh effects I from the probiem that 8 a generally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, environmental sobecco measured i several points in time and then extrapolated to smoke, pesticides, i entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decades spent and contaminated air and boiler I fbers released € most heakh eflects are messured as a I resuk of from duct lininps and otfice machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sampling A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints -ere related pri- day to day but from hour to hour. such a stratep most fail. (Robertson e al. 1985) was unable to identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-qualiry parameters in the micro wet-bulb globe temperature, dry-bulb temperature (semper- environmeat and stt these characteristics in relation o d ature). relative humidity. sir velocity, formaldebyde. or por- level of individual complaints at . gveen point in I This itive or nerative ons between several rooms in . building report presents resul of cros-sectionall investigation of with natural and a building with mechanical ventilation. problem building using . self-administered.. lincar analog. where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom E I a Amaum Profesor of Medicnne und ol lndustrial and Emvironmental Heakh Scencees at the Univerury of Pisburg Schools of Medicine and Publc Heahh. P. Cely . Director, Environmental Heakh and Salery. Camepe-Melloo Univerutty. Pirtsburrh FA.
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelen,
(Kreiss and Hodpson 1984; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986). marily Os mechanical ventilation. A I proup of authors
results .s greater than the difference .s average samples, and No investigations in a peer-reviewed litersture have
3u9p
