LOS ANGELES TI:S Los Angeles, California October 20, 1954 nn been proved. 1ale 1:niversity
harrl uudn the premire that Sination n A partirular type nneetion hety ern riea in each of a arre ratrgories re smoking.nd disease ha: has alrcady produred a safe Might Take Six Months ene it is. so all can be made Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. 1f not, the rerearch who was in charge of the most Dr. Carrnce Cnok Lit:e,, compiete statistica! study to rhairman of the scientific ad- date, said tba: "some AR we visnry bnard and seient'fi di- should wait for more defii- rector o the Tniarro Indus- ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would nne has said just what the de. produre some nf "the defni- fintiie evidence weid be." tive eviderre" in werh Dr He sard te "took issue" with Hammond referred. In nue alk in the Ameriran "We wiil tackle simultan system was more important, line of the industrv's research migh: prove surcessful in xix do not have today Ihe months, wirh k:ck, he said. menta! evidence that * - prr-
cigarette If s0. scientifie re- search should prove which should fin one, "since ple like to smoke cigarettes. try Resrarch (ommirtee,, de- seribed the outliees nf st:-- Tackle l'nknawns
Expert Calls Safe' Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming
for
atatistician
-oad
tive evidence before develop-
NEW YORK. Ort. 19 (1P this virwnoint.
The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eously manv ef the unknowns arette smoking with b ot h Hammond said the relation- in this feld of tobacen use in lung cancrr and heurt dis. ship nf rigare:te smoking to relation to humun health, he ease is "ovrrw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitive once about developing "a safe health. than the relationship findings in ue area where cigarette a a leading statisti- to lung cancer. 1 program t0 murh suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find e. safe eigarette" from bren done. The program nf meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recngnizrs tha: Wt C tie advisory board of the There are various types of garding the caure anri cffers Tobacco Industry Research tnhacen, there are varinus relationshrp hetween rrv ron. Committee ananunced some of types nf fiters, and there are mental factors, includ n - 1he details nf is seientifi re varinux terhn'uues n! euring The most important srarch program a hich is tobaren, he Raid, and e may pet up waR a dirre: suud prneett n
Cancer
experi
Society today. At the xame time the scien-
Outlines Described
mit scientific eonclasions rA. smnkire and lune eancer lung cancer rase: 1 10 medical centers i1 te : n I ed States and Canada,
he thar some fortuntors com- eurrent LOS ANGELES EXAVINER los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
It will include numerous studles of humans, including emotional habits of smokers, se well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. à apecirio research grants, financed the will be announced later.
HEALTH STUDY NO
TOBACCO NEW YORK, Oct. 19-- 5 < broad sbx point study seek Ing knowledg whether eigarets or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards was announced today. It is the first announcement of big research proxram headed by the sclentifle ad. visory board of the Tobacco In. dustry Research Committee
b TIRC,
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
