1e0 East : Avanue Ncw York, Newe York 10028 Teiophone (212) C22-6300
Foundation
OFFICERS AND BOARD CF TAUSTEES David J Mahoney, Chairman Pres.dant Nonaa Simon, Ine. Emest L Wynder, M.D., President Thomas J. Ross, * Sacretary Vice Presiden: Amarican Airlines, inc- Warner o Cosgrove, Jr. Traasurer Managing Partner Shieics 4 Company Trustees: Louis V. Aronson, = Prasident Ronses Corporation Mrs. Chanes A Dana Frederie C. Dacker Presicent Dacker Communications, ine. Waiter Senior E. Panner Harson Peat, Marwick, Mitchell I Ca. George James, M.D. Dean The junon Sinai Schoel of Medicine wallia J. Levin Chairman of the Soard Levit & Sons, ine. G. weiis Meore Presicent Fieldares: Milis, Ine. Jesesh M. Murta Presicent Sandgran & Murna, Ine. Maxwall Roban R. M. Pauley Rabb Partner Strootk & Stroock & Lavan David L Davies. Erecutire Vite Presidant Javits 4 Javits General Counsel
American Health
July 7, 1970
G. F. Todd, Esq. Tobacco Research Council Glen House, Stag Place London, S.w.1 Englard
Dear Mr. Todd:
In recent talks with Dr. Carl G. Baker, Director of the National Cancer Institute, the desirability of forming an international study group concerned with research into tobacco and health problems behalf of your organization to participate in this The proceedings will aim at providing the relatively few active investigators in tobacco and health research programs with an opportunity to discuss freely current and future research programs with the intent of reaching common objectives nore quickly. The dnoxb will be composed of investigators primarily invoived in tobacco and health research oriented towards producing less harmful smoking products. The partici- pants must be both willing and able to share with other investigators what is being learned from their current activities and openly discuss plans for future research in the field. It is thought that by bringing such a group of experts together to review ongoing studies and to plan future investigations jointly less harmful tobacco products will be available sooner and costly research projects will not be duplicated unneces- sarily. The meetings would be held at yearly intervals with the different organizations acting as host.
letter
invite on you
was discussed. This
is to
information and study group.
- . 66
