May 16 "96 8:44
P.11
Tribune Chicago
MAY. 16 1996
Philip Morris, UST offer plan to curb teen use of tobacco Proposal would prohibit FDA regulation, ban 'loosies' and vending machine salès
By Barbara Sullivaa TRIBUNE STAFF WATT Philip 'orrii Cos. and UST Inc. two 1o the largèst tobacco coupanies. went on the oueen sive Wednesday, proposing sweeping legislation to curb teen tobacco use. The proposals, which would include a ban on vending machine and single-cigarette :aales and impose curbs on advertising. go further than restrictions sought by the Food and Drug Administration. the companies said. The quid pro quo, however. is that the FDA be prohibited from any regulation of tobacco prod- ucts. "It there's FDA involvement. the deal is not on the table, said Ellen Merio. Philip Morris USA senior vice president of corporate afTairs. are not meant as a compromise. and restricting tobacco usage. this is a solution. beneficial
3/1
AU waaar
2 ppoto Steve Parrish. a Philip Morris Cos. senior vice president. at a is the biggest which have not yet received would include a $250 million however. sa w the tobacco pro- blatant smoke screen to keep "They reaitee that the FDA is most serious about protecting 1 the tobacco industry). and they SEr CIGARETTTS. PACE 2
a 741 u4
Merlo also said the proposals news conference Wednesday or Orst step toward rapproche- pany and UST mnett with the government's maker of snufr and chewing mounting push toward regulating tobacco. The two companies "This goes way beyond a com- support from other tobacca promise." Merlo said. "We think companies, said their proposal Merlo said further that the industry fund spent over a five- proposals are so comprehensive year period to help implement that unilateral action by Philip the legislation. Morris- and UST would not be Some anti-smoking advocates, "We couldn't implement these posals as nothing more than a actions on our own. without leg. islation. she said. "tr only one the FDA out of the picture. or two companies participated. there would be no impact." Philip Morris. maker of Marl- kids from the blandishments (of boro cigarettes among others. the world s biggest tobacco cOIT
