HERALD STATESMAN 0. 41.321-S 41.500 NEW YCRK AID VETROPOLITAN AREA
Smoking and health
start?
Knowing the
we
risks, why do
"There is no question that the population II is beginning to turn up with the malignancies of the lung associated with smoking, he observed. ihe smokes. "There was a time when lung cancer was almost un- kelovich, heard of, in men as women. Smoking is the sin- for the The American Cancer Society's 'aret Smoking and Lung teenage - Cancer, has an easily-un- derstood explanation. Medical breathe fall onto the mu-
By JOANN UNDERCOFFLER "You've come a long way, Baby!" the cigaret exults. "Baby" is seen as the American woman, svelte and smoking, making it i the marketplace right along with her smoking brothers. She has, indeed, come a long way. Way back when she didn't have the voté and i was considered unla- smoke, she didn'thave lung cancer either. Women today are falling victim to lung cancer at a rate Dr. J. Wister Meigs calls "epidemic" in the of the American Connecticut, he points out,
of tion of this stuff is what Dr. who has seen hundreds of lung specimens croscope. Ask him whether A 1976 STUDY by Yan- Skelly American
of advertising ning cigaret or héard an under a mi- having seen television anti-smoking In four weeks. spot the past Today, only 48 per cent en- counter this type of an- In and White nouncement. the and meantime, magazines Cancer newspapers portray smok- dressed. and young women. In the smokers cern. girl grew from 22 to 27 per cent, a -By "We're to trying figure ure adding up to half a mil- to 'out some way 1 get he people said. old things and F doesn't do any port states; they are- s0-1 be good. There must some move that would work.. 1 Although smokers think peer pres- probably it best. the- whip- would do - sure Thé Task Force report young women environ- per sive sinoking * ment" and the op. your own thing" phenomenon. fact arè smokers hard that and. physical well- work being might possibly lectures and a against the. cigaret, ré- felt. There is an for. the young appeal The Task Force, women contemplating the heaith of important WE CONDUCTED an 7. smokers among our. eol-
women who began smoking Bèrenzweig is talking on telèvision. In a 1969 sur- sometime after World War about. Ask any pathologist vey, 87 per cent reported
ad
well as
gle most important factor Society's Task Force on To- ers as young, healthy, sexy,
bacco and Cancer brought attractive and well
in the rise ofthe disease." forth some disturbing publication, "An- trends among teenage girls
Dr. Berenzweing and his-
dylike nn the extreme to swwering the Most-Often- years between 1969 and colleagues regard these
Asked Questions about Cig- 1976, the percentage of paradoxes with great con-
"NORMALLY, particles lion girls age 13 and "dn
These are not girls to cut it out.
Sept. 5 issue of the Journal 'nhaled with. the air we. smokkng for status, the re- "They hear the same
Association. In the state of cous lining of the bronchial cially at ease,
-
tubes, it reads. "This lin- "very put together. confident," subtle kind of psychological I ping'action of small, hair- increased only slightly Otherwise 3 a pretty the ratë of 1,000 times a the number of heavy smok- pointe two reasons teen- smoke slows or stops the than a pack a day) has smoke the "all-perva-
1975 figures show more ing acts like an escalator, men in the 35-to-44 age cles-upward by
lung cancer in women than constantly "earrying parti- 7 among young women have
group. tics?, CIGARETS, that's why. Those fitters-quelling; habit-forming, throat- villains seratching little 5 are almost as popular with. impairs womed today as they are tion in lungs that with men, and the medical agrees community that more than 80 per cent of Cused a fiterr eigaret lung cancer is the result of It took cigaret smoking, searchers and physicians to pin down the blame, but today they say there is no getting around it. Dr. Marc Berenzweig committee of the Westches- ter Division of the Ameri- can Cancer Society. As a cancer specialist (oncolog- ist), he is deeply con- cernéd. TIMN 274642
Why these grim statis- like structures called cilia, (from 34 to 36 per cent) in grim picture. -
which normally move at the same period of time, minute. Inhaled cigaret- èrs Famong them (more agers
action of the cilia and thus
51 to 61
the cleansing ac-. grown from
need i cent, the report revealed. Anyône who has ever they smoke at all. The Task rets?") has seen what hap- the risks they are courting. come black with gunk, and smoking. The subject searchers added while the filter traps some comes up in news reports
most."
THE MYSTERY IS why Countering these with tbe Force report showed that actually in the minority
holder-
(the > common joke is; both teenagers and young with emphasis on the im- "Staying away, from ciga- women are well aware of portance of independent
about 30 years for re- pens tô those little erystals They have been exposed - thinking
ie the filter after only one pack of smokes. "of this mess, it doesn't get
classroom films on the dangers of
They be- to
beads the public education - it all. A 20-year accumula- constantly. report states that the one pregnancy; their children is
most dominant countervail- to them. ing force awareness of, television anti-smoking commercials has been sharply
reduced because of formal survey of former the cutback in free match- leagues and found one com- ing time following the ban- 'mon element one way or
27703
