BOULDER DAILY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

Area.torres

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For the Daily Camera
nors.
kids.
ka,

referring to the increased enforce-
Auguad for selling tobacco to ml
tried to ong. the cigarelles. The

ment.

Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky enoueb.to
nesses this week during a crack. get'caught N suec summong
down on selling cigarettes 01 mi- to appoar "t court. Tho. maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve horis I 00zS. fine
of. the American Cancer Soclety's The Suna involved two tcams.
Oreat American Smokeout, was In- Each included u uniformed 'omcer
tended to educate clerks that it's il- a piain clothes oonicer. and two
legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School sirts, who
Police targeted gas stations, -005 .s11 parenis signed a waiver al-
vénience, drug, grocery. and dig. lowing them to tike partin.thcoog
"swy has never beer enforced, said The Juvenlles were told not to
Jopinog Policc Officer Mary Man plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
"We're letting the stores know had to show identification.

ccuut "saIms nnun, recently the eratlon.
this ic going to happen," ehc sald,

the cigarettes. and, If asked. they
(Sce BOULDER Page 3C)

Boulder police sting stores
for cigarette sales to minors
At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry
28uh SL, one of the girts asked when she was issted a sum
the cashier for a pack of Mart mons, ous raid ohe wus a stur
boro Lights. Office Rob Hauke- dent and couldn' atrrrd une
ness, In plain clothes, po0js In court costs. Haukeness poun "01.
"iine-hahind her to witnese thc 010BU00 her, saying she -pooo
A placard near the cash regis- the Distriet Attorney to do cam
ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice Instrad of paying a
clerk asked tn see some identif- The clerks, not the store own:
cation. The buyer produced lerr ert or manugers, have to pay the.
she was only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it to uusund
cd at the license, sct it down on stores or clerks, she said. "Al-:
the counter. and sold her the though, when you scc clerks
Afler they lef,, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted :SI
stepped dn and identified him sloros and clerks a1 bur four
eelf a3 o police officer. Manka recelved summonses.
came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wock'a
rra1M. I see them ask for an year. The frrst sting, conducted
E I think they're going to 2 in September, targeted 16 stores:
fuso the cale," Haukeness said. und S7 cierks received Rum

(From Page 1C)

The clerk at Colony Market,

transaction.

Aqngard work out a deal-with

No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ane,
driver's license, which showed court costs.

cigarettes.
summons.

ing, you might think otherwise - -
was the.
operation
secund tobacco sale stine this:

"But they never do."

monses,

094990FF02