. r
906
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richard L. Naeye, MD, and Woodrow S. may vayy in inciderce and S-omerset Countirs of eentral categories for pneumoconiosis were nnined anthracite roal.
Findings Dellinger, MS rank, low-volatile cont in Cambrin and l'ea-- rylvania. None of the men hnd ever cucted betwern Survy eon- puit and 19-35 ly the Pennsylvanin End Minrral Dupartmeat of Miner Indlurtrie stowed ar a verage coal dunt werk- exposure per ing rhift of 11.0,U,U e.be fout of uir fur parifles per biturinees work- free Tie siliea cuntent of cenl d ant is low is all arein of . neklmm lelag greater Fenneyis than $.." However, the mine durt conrettra t: u of free nilira In grester for sonte . nergrouund workers ruch as Rof 3 erntriluhu- l- Jters and eledrie Inemmtive -llo paracleatsicial a à who Jrill inte sll.aabearinn tuberruludin and n.k or eneounter pulverin 4 othr di ra- preeesses." The 77 cascs selerted rand, There separate di-eave prireses t1 rugg B te keatdd R search of disfering sutery :ke ly rwitailg. :: authera, whn vinited eachof ryven disability." h in the pirpase R -neral huspital, and rea. every au- evaluate thcir L : protorul that lavohed a influencen nu the man ruentgren 4 Ir thmn 21 yrara of age wim of parumoroiinsis l- tween 0v6t 2 aml 1tis. The P determine if pruu- fe: casen atarted atch with the with dinaliiity esitta in girts" patmn sonee workers witlent arreristed descriptinusof the lungn = hen Ti u rre was any mentiou of 6 seve almormalities pi,mmett, parenclymal nedul . Nin Patients Studied and Methods nl or any hlstury of mining. the ti nt's clinical chart was In- rran.ird.. frum l'nnekaiia andl Wert datn were est.cee A ginia, Vir e - m as inrluke in the Thir:y-one had ulway mined nf >tudy 3 d unly Prt-- * trvigaaiinn: espeere crd- h of smthweatern rprein minen L.ar : l'enn-sannia ur in tu: irmud ly a - I-brllde nerly northrnn W.i Vir,iisia Tl. :: -ail hhll re:ti ether 46 had alwayy mine d highrr. in" Ielppam tim tmmin vmation wa+ anltained. (1raa'' - No 2 P -nde I N a A Del J 223 PUBLICATIONS 027050
Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one patient to another. bituminous coal, roentgenographic found to correlate well measurements of € the volume of nodules. and (2) the silica (silicon dioxide)and macules and nodules. recognition of emphysemo and which appear to be most closoly correlated miners no with emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspnea in addition with silica and collagen,
process but a
In a study of 77 miners of with quantitative. pestmoriem anatomic pulmonory dust macules and collagen content of dust Unfertunately. there was poor roentgenep?aphic chronic cor pulnonaie, the tnudisrrcers with dyspnea. A mumber of PRA, lo dust macules
roentgenographic évidence of pncumoconiosis had rrmm 10: to 4G of Appulachian chitis and hronchiolitis; coal workers have rorntgeno lur, graphie evidenee of pncu- meconlonin, hut cor relatiuns hetween oruniinall such reentgenugraphii abnormalities. early stages." There dificulties Cuun is not a single disense but a composite uf multiple disorders, each of which maa vary in inridenre gruphie aren, exort posure, and apparnnt individual sus- ceptiliiity." These multiple dis Femm d Agann ni nf Cniser Cullye 4 # 4 a H. Muy Repte - : r w. : 1.. 3 et 2 Crsiet, Fles da, 2 1eu dbr Sarys) 'wiv Apral 10, 1972 . Vol 220.
panlolular, and emphysema: and G3) prob of the rurrent sualy tn prores Another aim ls tu moconiunis
symptoms, .nd bern diliralt ably arie workers' and
physical finding kave appear to make to make, erpecially in tions to from the faet that roal iniiividull pneummconiosis rblaakk ographic features severity, depenlent upon gro entgenographic
oerupatiunal e
order. Indude(11the primary ennl dust Jutirnt-.-The patients werr 77 un nr - informatinn Hanty Stedral C nivt, Penn..uunis State lew-rank high-valatil- qual i rmnttee rr unel lu
macule: (2) silicaris (3) ehrunie hhan- dergroane miners ef hiteminuuu enal li am! uthe mneerning nrra
10346287
