HKR2228112 AASIA RAR E . 2 :
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
-
4 < N
: - 2 - F a ISPAKIMI 7 : S*RHIV January 3, 1977 Dr. Willian H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Research roundation 715 Kuir Lands Vista May La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. fishean: and Salk.
12 5 - HIMNI 2
a
We are 1ooking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of the La Jolia resch rch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the la Jolla Cancer Resezrch Founr ation and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzynes should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establisnrent of H focal center for rcsearch proorams on oncodevelopmenta prublems is particularly irely. It will be of grtt potential importance for pulling tcgetter work, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, characteriztaion and deterrination of the significance of hurian oncodevelopmeettal antigens such as alphafetoprotein and Carcinorrbryonic antigens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship of increased serua concentrations of ArP to preralignant lesions or carcinogen exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model svsters clearly derion- strate tne t anirals pasodka to hejatocarcinogens have clevated serum AFP concen- trations prier to developrant of mslionant tumers. It is hoped that systeretic study of husan scra from differert aources vill determing if seru AFF conc.n- In addition. the role of env remmetal factors such as hormoual influences on the production of oncodevelojment..l gene prrkis can be further explored in different sy: tens. Such data implies that Uhe prod:ue tion of ohcooeveloppenta gene product, by turor cells is net a fixed property of a given tumor but is Hr look fon:ard to working with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the important subjert of oncodeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoger exposure.
subject to envirormental controls.
expression. Best regards, Stewart Sell, N.D. Professor SS/nb
