12

EATIN ree R G H

New! Improved! Dangerous?

With More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium, Experts Fear Taxic Reactions

Bu Avva de LISPNYR
Serte l The deshintm Pat
eranse lo her 1 fer
luachinne a
la NoN s
w followed in v 1 ler in the
lote aftermoo.. A - -e me bnelor chirk
e and . comple e vegetabees topped witl
wongrinn,, k-ilewedd by dell muliiits ROEAVEAC
min mineral nil frr nutritional inrerrnne,
The while mntching TV in the evening
balfeu (olay cap) A ke eremn Sounds
prrtyy reamonalle, rigut
Actually. depending on the tranks yor LINCH
danite, 1ue $ nar pyno pet be
bween 3000 and 3.000 milligrmms you cal
am -iccsiiccntt mire the A "Rulerable
Upper trueee Level" of v0sr millermms a
ty the the National Arademg of Scderess AFTERNOON SNACK
CAAS). Sn mam 1 are foo fotifiin with
aalium tut a Nas hrrome a reaseer bog0
v the safety Nei Ant the tus sae - DINNER
titiion recerd dtare concermel
"AN whh anything ke 1 on b . 1/2 oap hroccol tnppe with
prublem say Richard Wood, chict of the
Mineral Ninmmiaabiiii Labomtory af the
ttmman Nutrition Research Center at Tufts
University in Boston. "The wiadow between
-ytimal ietade - the upper link &e rekn ore -
aheel rail Indeed, the -afequtee intale EVENING SNACK
retathhttty the NASI 1.000 to 1,300mil
Tyrmmma der depending en - Oitr bwice dest marictedin Giant ant Safeeay
tha guee E you've reaniod the safety
eeiling 2 mary other retrientn, you'd TOTAL
amrr Ixforr maching ris kvvel
Whrt can happes A you take i toe marh
calciom owt E Wood sen there have
1 "on uhe corerr of 30cme reports" ofcal
clum tockctty, whkc 5 marilee itrr a a Nimrrre
perbeps lese some 4 ther fmetion.
the waaadd N called con
pam xire malecce

much -or ckiuu then : lunt lof tle a
real enntaluet 300 ie 400 mitgram et de
minrral,
Or oour s Purdur's Werver, sur pen
pke niw getiing vel 200 lo 400 milleprmms
8 (aaiium daity. tee coreal PEe >tl K ue
Ad. Ania k et people do gt ond Dor
1 Wood emoure ur your don drink
-Er-e a CArrR estomss
mil, your caleium -om motion i plemt
300 lo 400 milli tram - he Rey
1.000
110
s rule of thumb people sbook
390
90
know
300
120
widh the exccptioned Ilennc,, thouu de
rescarchere agree that in rafest act tn ent
vare aore 2,500 mnlligrrmmoffcdriiee
tban
daily, regaddeess R: veriations et abeorption
81
ratcn "Count f Woaver ays "Make w
272
10/
rosreme gingdeene TOTE
150
130
Wodd ayr tat stalnngithin dhr Srii 4
parsimdar enncern in Jumnetolla with MS
200
. modiur trying a Mrt -nre eakciu anr le
140
teengge son who atrraly gris elenty hy
seer dint ot the amount ot foodhe eats dt
13 20 142
might Irv cakciur fortitind orenr julee, at
a
47
26
àn fort I 4 eerenl and an an, hut
11
17
bo puanes mill a hule - - de amtaigei -
a
a 212
aller ferelel practir ha a cnsdr n à
rer
50
bowt a esreal a an aftrrschool wu d a
could cilyy be geunn thresndds ot 1
162
=
Rerams of cakhom
Wood and ether rencerchers abe agrre
GOO
2t0
dha M'seet 60 prt your caleiur frem rari
etr ot foods rather then coe or two heavily
fortifeed enee and Urt ot kmx soue of *
3,304
1,487
sbodd come from - ane ocher dairy prod
le ler in marrsiimm raolaviin, vitmmin
. and vitamia 1--ll madaalee in mi.
"pelry was kdnd nf encatop shupplng kr
tinn Hoacarch Center a Tul, b particulurty
thet . :
withaldd coneetrrs
I Fler,, . mineral researcher at Pur

A Calcium-Fortifiee Day
3/4 co
- 1
en r fertifed Miree Maie eranee alee
1
un
d
ee pan
- et Seins chovar
Wantur Engl 1
Nut--
bar
a 0a -ureesss ciicke tman
top Shedis I Crurrry Crock P Cakum
baind potatn, tapoe win
ese Shedfs - a Ca Fare B Calnkr
DE
cu Drear Calelum Ridh vanilis ke cream

The eaccimm recommendarion fer teenames is DOE'1 melligrams: --ditte to agr gn
seri fortiiieed foods en the market today, i rase to consinue mor dem 2500
ram x Tulerabee Upper Inteke Lovel - in the Natkmal Arainrg at
on diet of ealy vor' ralurien Check r the Sottote mmm

herd of cere a 36 dawe L000 millieams: end aduls Slgius, 1,200 millirams. Het with the dorens ef

lave 6 increae te eleqmtee intake - - I - - - . - - --ree a - - : -em de t - -ete "tisttriillyy Wewver expldu,, per
tho. diaiiess and wol thvue cal ifiaaiee Other ngree thtt cal-lumdtiileee foode agree She 4 quratlmns the LOO E I : - Maree mere mmmee i yee Je à
The Midmnn made o we tssue, "might br are - reesonatie optien. a favor the conerpt Nem el raiclum -w - te every wev Ing to a rakimm het THA mrcessirily dee
per tealuly winnmmhie. 2 remekss, amd n fertification," sivs Robert Hruny. - eak inreftetl ecreal, PLL an exceaiiv leve ether ubstaaeers fromm volcimm- dortidee
Then, ton, aepercakemias as toxicit ef Orul And unlie Wond, he's not partie k an anpreendentnd keve. probally higher Irwin Rosenberg, directur of the Nutr
Bave hada stone a the port. Too marh akt wbn roesume lots more than Ithel I he ewee - the quirk in the 1 abeerption thm ofa single nutrient will le people intu
- enn abe roduce absurgtin A two other claima Some populations who depend on a n ealcium. Yo witl abrerb -irr calcium a thiniior they're noerisbinng themeevvss adr
ensuitssiiiieraaciiioo and rir the batrr -t largdly - diln diet. vart an coiberds in you hum diddedddor thrunghont the des quately. " dont ges ou à hekk of mal
widch h accrean for wound bealing and Fase Alrica and tee Lapps whe plairrinderr 4 -e Thot's win poope who the ou li prodcut dictary cholces becruse am
enper feactioning e the immune -yttin in morthern Scandinnvi,, "typicaliy g060000 millipanms worth of eaciium uaplemeenss pickefone - ten heavly fartifedd Rodd l
While weth prnblems have bene mare wwu abuut which foods the minettt Y to br cundaceed hecoralaaliiiy testing AN Total's you bones completely proterted Nu h
-ww re superusrrlet abcives rabes the Bur imtance. Dreverssianu tel market I thet the enkeimm i the rerrol * a denily is * etrenghened ler exerdee, he
thvvt of thrir heooming more common. ine ke aremm thel contalon 300 milgrans sorbed 1rt - welas theenkkm in milk. Ror mys "Aniiss weakrned hy tn liek vitamin
Nit Uhit Wood think ealcium-forrilied nfenlcim per halfeup inttead of the typical every 300 miligrmm nf ralcium consume D." which in netessary for calcium absorp
Sookrare had thing. T think they E Rodd 100 milligrame and Hesney remarks 1yv (the amount le omp ef mik), the bodr ab dmmand perfape by too much sodjun mai
- be 2uV "Arrrng intakes are much gu mixod foclnn 5 tbe juek laod situ morbs 100 millgrums er roughly 30 percent. cadcine. Buth wabndances work 4u fush the
be miee wwen 20 - 29 ymrr d averm Adde Crnele Wienver odchum lnventiga dhe abrorptin rute Roe domn. - your have & other werda, os Hone 3 it "ealot
when the shoukl l corteiing 10000 dag: 1 Tdiate sore peopk use the crcime of 1 cuntains I 0urt milligramss t cuas yoal ve 1 : hmn ef Total doesn't
Temu And wumnn 65 and PP who needingtoget yn0s ealciun, teent lots duinlless to 11 prrvent aalctt 130 mi mean you ve aeree alf t ho-n.
le medl abuut lel det mouut 1 Ni problem whila making another ann Ipree onn mrrvige nupplies 1000 milllgram,, yeu HutinnRtchrrutamniie Lammecc
iootr inrr a the order ot R to t miil Re Durwe Haghe chief of the Calci inctho minds, yua'remet nhaurbingterrilly Uwierriitr Hralth Nilritiim Lelle

-e veeu 100 I . - - ) 4 - Teme 1 I 1 1 - - - ple who have beeu deficient in eadcumm have

- aral Bue Mesaboleer Lab at Tulls, thi packgee Af nutrirtee si - ' .

um researcher at Creighton Universstt ir R fortifiration, she comments le certainiy 1
siim utarly concerned about anyoer's 1 - dhan de air odker cakdum fortiind food.

whre furmaiin,, partiruiarly people -be bount "There lote of very healchy

hax -

be
reservations, ton, concerned

dosAd

are

people Werver

# I staly u pentenengaaee wom to 0002 millgguns ef wPw prr à and del a advirel te - le thcir teo 300 -
a Wued reprrts "High-alciim dirt re hew "absolutely so problems, le - millcoam pille 1t diffrrnt narals

Prr be der otters do Javi sovee reservations Heamy deredrrrte the pnint when he das prigte cat, tue thet ymrdosrt even rre

-ww, F pkehhura A calcia Hortiliee Reum addod to,
mwh loem du see recommewdattonss H Bue
only abutt 710 millgmums et cdccem

prodaers General Mis a on hand, hr cause arnot getting a ot edddum "Bo
Hut u de oncumm in k mial jorss - mineral frm the buly via the urinc.
aheorb -eb abunt 150el them, Heaney -ig Lindner ar cerwriee elirrrothh nuttr

tor at Pardue Univernily ie Weat Lalagette, Suree to for eups a mik in one sttinng um h only ene part of the pumrle, Just he

shondd be vettnee 1,300 militgamm, are tak ot A aul calories Then you're solving oee Fgsme R's the sire wil the Torat Stece

Mr dor for -en aithonnh the se for thrm imrce Meeep I