Pwu
Carcinagenesis vul 2 m 12 Pp.2721-2725, 1924 carcinogens supuese/apuposgysu-s chemopreventive agents
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke benzo()pyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
pyridyl-1-butanoine and
C342
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amenean Healh Foundation, Valhalta, NY 10595. USA
models examined e date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polyeyclie aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the All mouse hecause previous
The purpose of this study SEM to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemoproventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction in AJ mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression 01 by 4-(methylnitrosamnal-1-C-ypyridyl)-I-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However. the combined and benzofelpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in comhination. Groups of (emale A/J mice CI evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenbers were treated by either intragastrie adeara (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventiva activities of a number of Intraperitoneal injection (Ip.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and7.12-dimethylhenzialandhracend (9,10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse OI evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The in route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration (4,11,12). Results obtained with the A mouse can be replicated because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems. For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injection site and associated mortality A dose response (PEITC) ls an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/l mouse and F344 rat (11,13). mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens, This may not he realistic with respect 01 tobacco of 24 jimol of each) induced more lung tume ors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (I). The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for E study, NNK and BaP are important Comparisons of NNK and RaP given individualty showed repreventatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke c11. when given 49 the ig route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP The most favorahle dosing regimien of NNK and BaP for We wanted to usc multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 umol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and subdoses ig, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we examined sumor yields obtained dosing. This regimnen induced 10.5:4.4 lung adenomas uodn treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously fos mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 19 ethyllsothlocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1), This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminnry test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITO tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP thls study provlde a conventent model for assessing the NNK was synthesized in the American Health Foundation Organic Synthesis efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. Its purity wat established by HPLC a >997 BaP (93% purity), Our goal ir this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive mnaistained on AIN-76A dint containing s Ws eil. as previously to play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups of 15 as sammarized in Tatte I At ase 7 weeks esch mouse wa kers: 4-(maigyleioossming).1 -(3-pyridyl)- 1-butanone (NNK*) treated by imtraperitoneal (ip injection or by intragastrie gavage (ig) with and benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) (1) NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical le O.I ml cononsced oi NNK and BaP were beth carcinogen with organospeeificity for the lung ie all rodent dissolved in che 0.1 ml used for treatment Injections and gavages were carried *Abbroslations: NNK. 4-(methyl oxamino)- 1-(3-pyrldyl-1. -butunone individuat dese was coe -eighch ef the noral Equimolar doun of NNK and a BJP benzeololpyrend: PEITC, phencihy inothiocyanale: BITC, benzyl BaP were ued in most of the combination groups, hecause the arcunts of
which these 011 tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/I mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the
Most previous studies in the A/ mouse have examined We sought to develop a model which could be used to
that Bal was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
5.92 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (F < 0.001) and completely inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inhibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
BITC (989 purity) and PEITC (93% (Aund were obtained from the Aldricih Chemical Cempany (Milwaukee, Wt, Cottonseed oll wa purchased from Female AI mice, age weeka wete obtained frem The Jackson Laborntory (Bar Harbor, ME. They were housed ander standard conditions in the The design of the bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1. A mice were divides out for 8 consecutive weeks. The total doses are given in Table L Each 16 NNK ad total earcinogenic polycyelie hydrocarbons iin tobaceo smake are
Sigma Chemical Co (St Louis, MO
Introduction
agents against two of the carcinogent in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
isothiocyanaie, a intruperitoneal is intrugastrie gavage.
o Oxford University Pres
2721
