SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H. ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.
et al. (1987) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire The sympsoms were more common a bild-
In a crott-sectional invesaganon in one building. office buildings built aver the last 50 years with a validated were measured on a linear analog scale questionnaire dui where the ventilation system also provided cooling and Ar the same ame, the micro-environment (environmenial humidification. irrespective of the ase of the T A characteristics in the breaching zone rather chen area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air samples) I characterized by measuring lemperesure, quality parameten : not described Skov et al. (1987) es- relacive humidiry, respirable suspended particulases, car. amined indoor air qualiry symptoms in 14 modern I bon dioxide, noise level. lighring inensiry, relacive ka lomm hall and M older control buildings A level of rymp midiry, and airflow. No relationship I aeen between toms was related to . "Beecing" factor (carpets, upholsery che degree of sympioms and age. education. or duration and horizontal surfaces) sad the "macro-molecular compo of employment at the building or time spent in the build- neat" of dust. They also demonstrated . relationship berween ha on a daily basis. Suatistically, complaints were the pumber of hours spent photocopying and using carbonles significandly more frequent among Puyour men. Envi- copy paper and the level of complaints Other studies have ronmental charecieristics associated wich che increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et a 1985) complaint levels in this troup included decressed airflow and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute models, thene was an association between respirable a cause of complaint la the sick building syadrome by I pended particulates and the levels of boch muCous Mem suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et brane and rysemic complaints. Sasisfaction wish the F (1985) wert unable to demonstrate any measurable dif. I environment as predicted by perception of raft ferences ls the concentrations of eavironmental pollutant did : clearty contribute a the degree of rympton, berween rooms in . mechanically and . aaturally veutilate sudies of che sick building ryndrome I examine ples measuring dust and . "macre-molecular" fraction.
complaints associated with the "sick building syndrome
velocity and increased levels of respirable suspended & to indoor air quality complaints.
ticulates and dry-bulb lemperature. In regression alchough regression models E suggest t cony were not independent of thermal parameters. inensiry I also associated * complaints. A 2 measures to idensify prediciors of complaints in
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual building. They studied the rooms with the I compl rates and used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did demor strate relationship between symptoms and both Area samples ie buildings may not x representacive of the exposures in different points in single rooms. Physical charscteristics 1 a windows and partitions. computers. and shelving may infuence air currents. Radiant heat ma different exposure characteristics than the macro-coviros
are -
- exposures simulancously and include paycho- in : samples.
indoor i INTRODRCTION
Complaints termed the E building syndrome" bave lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, moet a led to Dumerous investigations in the last 15 years. A are lutants result trom point sources, so they will X diluted - thought o1 occur primarily la newty constracted ofice build- subject a fartber removed from the soarce. A micro # ing and, at least la the past, were thought to be : to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very wide variety of causes have been identifed le specific settings, ment of a building In addition, all applied occupational and inchuding inadequate sempersture and relative bumidiry coo- environmental bealth rescarch 2 attempts to relate dose o trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds bealh effects suflers from th problem that dose a penerally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, enviroemental sobecco measured a several points in time and then extrapolated t smoke, pesticides, à entrainment of vehicie exhanst or allow developmen of exposure classifications 1 decades spent and contaminated air and boier fumes. Sbers released while most healh effects are mcasured as . single resuk of from duct linings. and € machine offgnses - odors these chronic exposures Wbere the variability of sm A group of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where th level of symptoms may change not merely trom et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri. day to day but from hour to hour, such stratepy most fail (Robertson et al. 1985) was unable to identify differences in attempted to characterise air-quality parameten in the micro wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb tempersture (temper. enviroament and set these charcteristic in relation o the ature), relative humidity. air velociry, formaidehyde, or pos level of individual complaints at . pven point in I This rve or negative ions between several rooms in . building report presents results of crom-sectionsl investigation of . with narural and a building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using . self-administered. linear analog. where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-tem symptom # I . Amitant Profenor of Medicne aad et lndustrial and Environmental Heakh Sciences at the Universuty of - of Medicine and Publc Heahh. 4 i a Director, Environmestal Heahh and Salery. Camepe-Mellon Univerury. Pictsburgh -
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1984). Nevertheless,
(Kreiss and Hodgson 1984; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986). marily to mechanical ventilation E same group of authors
results i greater than the difference ia average samples, No investigations in the peer-reviewed litersture ha
Schoot
S
