NYHNOIMIS FILTER SHIAL 2D Another
New York Times March 1, 1968 Page 34
Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs to Use It By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pali Mall of Canada, "PII the second-larg est cigarette sompany in that country, contracted yesterday with the Strickman Foundation 01 pay a penny a pakk royalty for use of the filter ihented by Robert L. Strickman. The company, which is 5 per cent British-owned, but Cansdian-mansged, sells 12 bil- lion cigarettes a year, very few of them in the United States. The agreement was the second s two days with the founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company, with annual salcs of more than 18 billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. Strickman, was surrendering its rights to the filter to the fonndation. The university said le had "made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering a highly con- troversial end competitive com- mercial ficld." Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financial the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to it last summer by Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set dn on Wednesday by the New Jersey chemist as a charitable institution "to ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has received $200,000 in advance royalties. According e Robert > Katz, the unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts could eventually bring E about $5 million a yeartn roy'alties. Mr. A Jawyer who. Is secretary Seagram's Distil- Kat leries, said that Rothman's Pall nfall of Canada hed been test- ing the. Strickman filtor since last August. Wilmat Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman's, said of the device: "We are antistied that nothing exists gives comparcile filtratlon without ppaaape affecting the flavor of the cigarette. - takes out 'more suspect e'e ments withia. the cuniext of ac- ceptable (lavor, we feel that as cigarette should 5 =
Claims Are Disputed The claim that the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ling cigarette flavor has boen a subjcct of controversy. Among the most outspoken critics of the filter has been E ienator Warren G. Magnuson Vo Washington, who has con- tended that its claims have been ieatly exaggerated. nouL, many governmental and privae health reports by experts, habe called cigarette, tar and hicotine health hazards, Columbia University, in a re- port on thè Sajckman filter made public ua Wednesday, avoided making 8 conclu- So far no United Swes ciga- -rette companies are beliayed lo be close to a contract fo the filter. Experts say that doies- tic companies need not fear competion in this country from the Canadian cigarettes because of a 15-cent import duty on each package. Pall Mall cigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana- dian concern.
sions.
stake in
rescarch.
- Re which
1002617799
ny wE
