100 East End Avanue Now York, Now York 10028 Telophone (212) C28-6300
Foundation
OFFICERS ANS BOARS CF TAUSTEES David J. Mahoney. Chairman President Nodaa Simon, Ine. Emest L. Wynder, M. D President Thomas J. Ross, Jr., Sacretary Vice President car Airlines, Ins Warner o Cosgrove. Jr, Treasurer Managing Partner Shieics & Company Trustees: Louis V. Aronson, il Prasident Ronson Corporation Mr. Chanes A Dana Frederie C. Dacker Dacker Presicent Communications, Ine Walter Senior a Panner Harson Paat, Marwick, Mitchell - Ca. George James, M.D. Dean The iunon Sinai School of Medicine William J. Levist Chairman of the Soard Levtt d Sons, inc, G. wetiam Mcote Prescent Fielderest Mitis, 1ee. JesephM. Murha Presicent Sandgren - Murha, Ine Robert R. Pauley Maxwa" M. Rabb Partner Stroock & Strocek & Lavan Davic L Davies. Erecutire Vice Presizant Javits de Javits Genoral Counset
American Health
July 7, 1970
G. F. Todd, Esq. Tobacco Research Council Glen House, Stag Place London, S.W.1 England
Dear Mr. Todd:
In recent talks with Dr. Carl G. Baker, Director of forming an international study group concerned with research into tobacco and health problems was discussed. This letter is to invite you on behalf of your organization to participate in this The proceedings will aim at providing the relatively few active investigators in tobacco and health research programs with an opportunity to discuss freely current and future research progrars with the intent of reaching common objectives more quickly. The group will be composed of investigators primarily involved in tobacco and health research oriented towards producing less harmful smoking products. The partici- pants must be both willing and able to share with other investigators what is being learned from their current activities and openly discuss plans for future research in the field. It is thought that by bringing such a dnors of experts together to review ongoing t tudies and to plan future investigations jointly harmful tobacco products will be available sooner and costly research projects will not be duplicated unneces- sarily. The meetings would be held at yearly intervals with the different organizations acting as host.
the
of the National Cancer Institute,
desirability
information and study group.
less
