LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday March 20, 1977
ALOOKTATTESTS uo-uec-all Saccharn: nWC BOBEFT Times S lence wrter Dces it make S nse 8 ban a poguia focd addtive an he strength of what happens when hundred rats and. their otfsprings eat a additive in hug: doses? - The Calorie Coatral Couneil, Ine. R Adanta thinks not a trade argani- eation whose $ 0,000 annual budgat cames trom manufacturers a dietiry food and drink. has spent thousands cfdollar in thelast few days far full page newspaper ads across the coun- berating the Food and Drug Ad- ministration for its decision S ban saccharin. - the aniy nonnutritive- sweetener aurestly ca the matket FEven the E A is wuling 6 admit thère's a basie difference between - rats and human a cne B ad in the TA Street Joarnal.ohserved. S,11. M anocher PT mpie a, the art mature ot big
To judge 6% thé torrent 8 - t the FDARas received. a sizable por- tion the. calorie-counting public agres Long accustomed 6 a cross firr at criticism from industry and consumer activists. the FDA has been . by; citizen demands 3 liber- ate saccharin, And moves are afoot F Cangress a amend the Food: and Drug Act.mvm Ri 5 1 fs : There'sbeen tremendons.cuter? from allaver the country," # EDA spokesman B Washington said: a, ranges from anguish to anger. We've never been this busy. 3 te - The FDA: for its part: says it was oniy doing what the law required a the lam-specifically tha Dela- ney clause Congress inserted. in the Food and Drug Act in 1958 says that por-ficed) additive shail be deemed to * safe H it is found after tests: * which are apdosdde for the evaiua- ton of the safety:af food additives: iduce cancer F man 8 animat he clause doesnot allaw fora bal supn of ziske md becefit. Nar does à ididre - the: ban ta be: based on idence af cancs
af besieged
the logic 6 this law may e saem 9 the general: public, medical elearchers say. that the animal a a périments uponwhich such regilato are based do a sen- decisions have sibler rationale -andi that they 5 bave a direct-:bearing on risk s hu mans 3 Itis true, resez ats thif.therats 'at thecenter of this fur cre consumed each day the saccharin equiralent a AjEnar 1,000 cans of à lowicalorie soit drink But they-con- sidèrit not dishonast to -Asprojenn as the calorie council bas, that Suggest E disparity makes the research 6 hurans. tirélevant who drink one # a People T P a saccharin soft oniy drink run a 'edmparably lower risk of cancer. But in a af 213 million peopie, te population collective hazs E could stll add - a a sevez ae cases af hlad dercancer: : oreover scie a note rat
*
-
7035437
0087432
TIMN
