1KU2223022

Life Sciences Tal. 15, pP. 1291-1300
Printed in the V..A.

Pergamon ress

K

a s ta PYRTNE BY atesoscies FRON
TIS ar PRECLANT Aen E TAL STEPE
Irene T. Mang, Ronald E. &a amaneen and T. Timothy Crnckart
Cancer Besaarch taa ttute, Univermits of California San Franeiece, and Depart-
ment of Community ard E avironmental Medieine, Univeraits of California, Irvine*.
(Received in final form 26 August 1974:
Rummary
Pratreatmes of hansters with bento (a)pyrene (BaP) grestly increased
the in vitre aetahol la of BaP by lung alere ane fron prognant Mua
atare and 3 lesa effect on the metaboli - of Bar bhy 11ver niere-
acepe - The profuetion of various metaholites of Rap by lune niere-
dikydredihydrecg-Ber (9,10-d101) and 7,0-diel vere incressed aare
than that ef te 4,5-d1e1. In the ense of 1iver nierosomas, only the
yielde of 9,10-diol and 7,8-diol ware incraasad ovar the control
levels, The presence of eyelohesene oxide in the incuba tior -
tures decreased the production of the diala. Dasal-level SnEVIS
activities in placental fetal 1iver, and retal akin aiereson e in
metaholisine MP vere very lov. Pretrestment of premnant hang tars
vith Rp indaced BaP-meteholisine entyes in fe : tisrue 2-3 fold.
femsl in coal tar, air TAl eil, car exhaurt, totacco smoke, - A foode, ete.
à In vitro stadice ahoend that ne tabolic activation et Bar 1e required for
ita intarartics wh proteine and annlale aelde (2,3). Parller studies wth
rat 1iver pr eparations 14,3) : hanatar 1iver aicrososer (6,7) shoved that Bar
le metaheliend mainly 8 phenolie and dihydrodihydeown fatall derivatives, and
to quinones whirh are ensyrutie oE air oxidation producte of anatabla phenolic
netabolites Is'D) as vall an aone maidentified mare polar matabolites The
metabolies ef MaP has generally been neasured A the production ef 3-hydroxy-
Par (3-OH-naPl t Je aftes one of the major metalolites in vitro 5 3-01-
K-regton spowides ef re ela polyeyelie aronatic hplrocartes IPA he to cell-

sonos  iscraased to aire
wa ene of the nator :at

ente Kahudro.Ba (-CH-MP
- the mataholic yielde of .10

Banse (alprene (P ie . carcine and

anental centaat that ie

nap ie tesic to aitured calle (9) tut it ahovr
DINA in vitro (6) and has not been

l1ttle intaractio w th
to be - arcinooenic O the ather hand,

1291