WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRISUNE D. 25,605 - 49,326 WACO METSOPOLITAN AREA MAR 9 19€9
F.C Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard- aoA1 Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communicationt Commission from going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, It does not scem right or logical that onc medium of advertising be forbidden the producer W hile newspapors, magazines, billboards and counter displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expected to review the FCC proposal and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the worning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC sald it is proposing to refuse licenses to broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising because of evidence that smoking is injuriour to health and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public intercst. 'This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC nnd may be bigzer than the Congress: the right of individuals to do as they please so long as they doa't harm anether. Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if you don't mention something. maybe it won't Congressman Paul Rugers, Hlorida Democrat, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com- merce Commitice, said in reference to the proposed FCC rule that the nguncy had overstepped the bounds of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has any right to tell an advertiser what he could not say in his névertizements. Rogers said Congress will take a cluse Icok at the whole question of regulations on televisinn and radio ndvortising content, not ouly as to the Federat Communications Commission but in regard to Federal Trade Commission practices as The stakes involved extend beyond the business of broadcasting. They 03 to the heart of whether governmeat bureaus should he allowed to go beyond
advertising.
Hazardous to Your Health.
hurt you and will disnppear.
well.
tho limits of due proccss and thc law,
