HERALD STATESMAN a 41.321 S 41.500 NEW YCRK Cry METROPOLITAN AREA
Smoking and health Knowing
start?
the that the population of II is to turn beginning with the malignancies associated the lung with smoking, : he observed. Ihe smokes. "There was a time when heard of, in men as well as women. Smoking gle most important factor in the rise of the disease. The American swering the Most-Often- aret Smoking and Lung derstood explanation.
1u do of advertising ning cigaret television anti-smoking In the four weeks. spot past Today, only 48 per cent en- counter this type of an- In the and meantime, magazines Cancer newspapers smok- portray ers as young, healthy,sexy, Dr. Berenzweing and his.
we
risks,
By JOANN UNDERCOFFLER 'You've come a long way, Baby! la the cigaret ad exults. "Baby" is seen as the American woman, svelte and smoking, making it in the marketplace right along with her smoking She has, indeed, come a long way. Way back when she didn't have the voté and 11 was considered unla- dylike in the extreme to smoke, she didn't have lung cancer either. Women today are falling victim to lung cancer at e rate Dr. J. Wister Meigs calls "epidemic" in the of the American Medical
"There is no question tion of this stuff is what Dr.
women who began smoking Berenzweig is talking on television. In a 1969 sur- sometime after World War about. Ask any pathologist vey, 87 per cent reported
who has seen hundreds of having seen or heard an
up of lung specimens under a mi- croscope. Ask him whether A 1976 STUDY by Yan- American Society's Task Force on To- Cancer forth some disturbing dressed. trends among teenage girls from 22 to 27 per cent, a fig- ure adding up to half a mil- These are not girls to
lung cancer was almost un- kelovich, Skelly and White nouncement.
is the sin- for the
brothers.
bacco and Cancer brought, attractive and well years between 1969 and colleagues regard these
Society's publication, "An- and young women. In the
Asked Questions about Cig- 1976, the percentage of paradoxes with great con-
Cancer, . has an easily-un- teenage girl smokers grew cern. "ATTVKHON- particles lion girls age 13 and "dn
- "We're to frying figure to out some way people get cut = t he said. out,' the same old do subtle kind of would psychological work.. I move that think peer pres- probably it best. sure would do The Task Force report the op,, ment" and your own thing" phenomenon. are hard fact that smokers and well thinking physical exposed might work cigaret, of against There is an the dangers - searchers felt. smoking. The subject added the appeal for. young contemplating The Task Force the health of their most dominant countervail- to them. ing force awareness of, anti-smoking television WE (3130GN00 an in- commercials has been smokers among our eol-
Sept. 5 issue of the Journal inhaled with. the air we. smoking for status, the re- "They hear
breathe fall onto the mu- port states; they are So- things and it doesn't any
Association. In the state of cous lining of the bronchial clally at ease, confident: good. There must be some
Connecticut, he points out, tubes." it reads. "This lin- 1 "tvery put together lung cancer in women than constantly carrying parti- among young women have
1975 figures show more ing acts like an escalator, men in the 35-to-44 age cles upward by the- whip-
Although
smokers
group. tics?, CIGARETS, that's why. Those habit-forming; throat- are almost as popular with. womep as are today they with men, and the medical community that agrees lung cancer is the result of smoking. It took cigaret about 30 years for re- and searchers physicians down to pin the blame, but today they say there is ou t around getting Marc Dr. Berenzweig heads the public edication committee of the Westches- ter Division of the Ameri- can Cancer Society. As a cancer specialist (oncolog- ist), he is deeply con- TIMN 274642
bing action of 'smalt, hair- increased only slightly Otherwise 1 a pretty the rate of 1,000, times a the number of heavy smok- pointes two reasons teen- smoke slows or stops the than a' pack a day) has smoke the "all-perva-
Why these grim statis- like structures called cilia, (from 34 to 36 per cent) in grim piéture.'
which' normally move at the same period of time,
jitters-quelling. minute. Inhaled cigaret- ers samong them (more agers 1 young women scratching little villains it action of the cilia and thus UMOJB from 51 to 61 per sive sinoking environ- more than 80 per cent of used a fiiter. cigaret holder-, Force report showed that actually in the minority
impairs the cleansing ac- tion in lungs that  most.'
revealed.
need 11 cent, the report
THE MYSTERY IS why Countering these with tbe
- Anyone who has ever they smoke at all. The Task rets?") has seen what hap- the risks they are courting. pens to those little crystals They have been
(the > common joke is, both teenagers and young with emphasis on the im- 'Staying away, from ciga- women are well aware of portance of independent in the filter after only one to classroom lectures and being the. possibly E it all. -A 20-year accumula- constantly. report states that the one pregnancy; children is important
pack of smokes. They be- come black with gunk, of this mess, = doesn't get
on and films
while the filter traps some comes up in news reports women
reduced because of formal survey of former the cutback in free match- leagues and found one com- ing time following the ban- mon element one way or
cernéd...
sharply
37703
