LOS ANGELES TIES
Los Angoles, California
October 20, 1954
been proved,
ale
U'niversity

haieil uuda the premise that hination n' a particular type
ineet or hetween riea- in each nf : three categnries
moking and disease has has alrrady produred a sale
Might Take six Months one it is. so all can be made
Dr. a Cuyler Hammond thar wav. = not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr Clarrnce Cnok Litte.
complete statistica! ipms to chairman of the sciemtifr ad
date, said tbat "some say we vianry board and scient fie di
should wait for more defini rector o: the Toharco Indus
tive evidence before develop- trs Research Committee de.
ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves wonld
one has said just what the de produre some nf "the defni
finitive rvidence wed be." live eviderce tn atch Dr
Hr sand ke "took issue' with Hammond referred.
In his talk in the Ameriran "We wiil tackle eimultan
system was more important, line of the industry research
might prove surcesstal in six dn not have todav the experi
months, swith iuek." he said menta! evidence that : arr
tobaren, he gaid, and t may The most important nroceet

cigarette IE so scientific re-
search should prove which
should find one, "since
ple like to smoke eigarettes
seriber the outlines nf siud
Tackle U'nknewns

Expert Calls
Safe
Cigarettes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming
NEW YORK Ort. 19 ALPI

for

atatistician

-oad

thia viewnoint

The rvidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eousty mans of the unknowns
arette smoking with hath Hammond sair the relation- in this field of tobacen dee in
lung cancer and heart dis- ship nf rigare:te smoking to relation to Euman health. te
rase is "overw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out-
something should be done at from the standpoint R public program. We scek delinitive
onee about developing "a safe health. than the relationshin findings in ue area where
cigarette." leading statisti- to lung cancer A program to much suggestive work has
cal scientist told the annual find ta sale cigarette from been done. The nrogram nf
tifc advisory board of the There are various types n( garding the raute anri rfert
Tobacco Industrv Research inhacen, there are varinus relationship hetween erv ra
Committee ansounced some of types n! filters, and theze arc mental factore inclndine

the viewpoint ef the heart the bnard
Ouflines Deserihed

that wr
recngnizes
mit scientifie ennclsnns PA.
sninkire and lune cancer
set up was dirres tudy à
current lung cancei raset .
10 medical centers mtle : n t
ed Statex and Canada,

meeting of the American
Cancer Society today.
At the same time the scien-

ue details nf :tR xcicaifie re arinua teehn'ques n! curing

srarch program which in he that

some fortuntors rnm-
LOS ANGELES EYAVINES
Los Ange les, California
October 20, 1954

It will inelude numerous
etudies of humans, including
emotional habits of amokers,
as well as teats on animals.
Only the main broad aspeets
of the research wrre disclosed
today. à specitio research
grants, financed by the TIRC,
will be announced later.

HEALTHSTUDY
ON TOBACCO
YORK. Oct. 19 -
A broad abx point study seek
Ing knowledge whether eigarets
or other forms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health haz.
ards was announced today.
It a the first announcement
of big research program
headed by the selentifie ad-
visory board of the Tobacco In
dustry Research Committee

NEW

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062