BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
Area stores
SA
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For the Delly Camera sJou kids. ker
referring to the Increased enforce- penalty Tur mumas tobacco vo m pau; 3 Anq Uhie cigarelles. The the cigarettes, and, if asked, they (See DOULDER, Page 3C)
ment.
Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky orq8nous nesses this week during a crack- getcaughteere issued summons- down on selling cigarettes to mi- to appoar ut court. The maximum The sting. conducted on the eve -horis H $200 fine of the American Cancer Soclety's The Juna involved two tcams. Great American Smokeout. was in- Each included a uniformed ofcer. tended 01 educate clerks that it's il- a plain clothes. omcer. pur omI legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School giris, Who Police targeted gas stations, 003 giris' parenis signed a waiver al- vénience, drug, grocery and "ap lowing them Ta talce partinihc.op: "lag has mever beer enforced. said The juvenlles woro told not to Jopinog Police Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell iWe're lerting the stores know had to show identification.
count slores. mun, recently, the eration. thie is going to happen,' ahc sald,
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors At the Conoco atation, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 c 28Lh SL, one of tho giris asked when she WAR isted Lsim, the cashinr for a pack of Mart mons, ous gaid CEU was a stur boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- juop. and couldn't RoN Ru ness, In plain clothes, po01s In court Costs. Haukeness pe01 to. -itna-hahind ber to witnece thc boagole hor, saying she -pinos A placard near the caih regis. the Distriet Attorney to do com ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity ecrvice inatead of paying clerk asked to see somo identifi- The clerks, not the store own cation The buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do i to .usund cd at the license, act it down on stores or clerks,' she said. the counter, and sold har tho though, when you occ clerks "Al-: After they left, Haukenees Roulder Polica targeted 18: stepped da and identified him storcs and clerks al mill but four celf 03 a police officer. Manka received summonses. came in and wrote the clerk a Thie wock's operation was the. "When I Nee them ask for an year. The first sting, conducter E I think thny're going to à in September, targeted 16 stores esn the cale," Haukeness sald. und ST clerks received sum
(From Page 1C)
The clerk at Colony Market,
transaction.
prububly work out a dealwith-
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Mine, drlver's license, which showed court coste.
cigarettes. summons.
ing, you might think otherwise. enye - punaas tobacco sale stine ans
"But they never a
manses,
