E

44/n/s

ZHT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Nre York Times Servier

wan bought 5.1 billion American- Ametican cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars .
made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issur even in receat pack ($2.86) compared with 22

TAIPEI I The Marlboro cow- dn sales of $119 million. in 1986, trade talks between the United New Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for
boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4 4 million. For- Staies and Taiwan. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOw hold nearly 18 shieng Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis
town, His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered a ing in Japan ard more liberal. Com-
guitar-playing. jeans-clad promot. Indeed, Asian sales accounted give out free cigarettes and gifu," B aggressive campaign Television
This (renetic, fast-growing na- cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawed in the United States in 1971.
tion of nearly 20 million pcople ly because both Tuiwan and Japan school students - 12, a years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-standing restrictions. are DOM smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry - label that
year and for the first time, a According to the Brown & Wu- rette companies promote cigareties roughly translated. says, "For the
mbrtantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp., exports of like that? It' O.K. to have them sake of health, don't smoke 10o
made a America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" a warning much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. IC- joy . 915, billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $i tomig in new sales the United States. But those people mandated 5 the United States.

and dod-pus-mom. storcs through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.

panies can advertise on TV after

oul this city, next to posters & - peroent.
er of Winston cigarettes.

"They go 01 amusement places 10 8:50 P.M. and arc now conducting

for most of the growth in American he said recently. "Many scbool- advertising of cigarettes was out

In Japan, which has population'
million
of 120
and where people
the past year. The market share 2E
American cigarettes increased to ers vigorously deny
10
from 3 percent is 1986, and the promoting

Wfacturers have essentially intro
cigarette advertising 01 the
tbe American companies of entic-
ig teen-agers 01 take da moking.
operation that had monopolized percent by 1992.
tised, altbough it does now.
prensure from Washingson. In the alcohol.
year since stiff reetrictions o0 for-
# cigarettes were dropped.
e American cigarettes ET Taiwan
for
period growth American man-
wacturert at time when sales in export
way
and (be number of anti-smoking
laws in
way dn

ard just like robbers. If you are . Tbe companies say American
'uw a human being. you woo't de cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan
not 5 much because of the adver-
tising a because they are of better
quality and taste better. American
are
with the way are cigareiter made of
they and bacco and bave less tar than Tai-
products say waacie cigarettos which are not

duced

ialand, and that has created L furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes year that.
Government officials bave accusod imports have more than tripled

American

cigarette manufactur-
there ia
any-
Tbey are not alowod to advertine
5 small stores where cigarettes are
a well a
through promo-
also
120 ade . year in
place
droulation maga- acl-
dom croceds 200,000.
people
Taiwar
im

blended
to

charge the American companies more than percent last year, thing 2uoi their
The Mosgrneol-adninugrad dicts that ia could grow to 15 8 20 sales pitch.

botly deny.

Department of Agriculture oid they have no plans to change their bleodod.
American pressure to open their have they pusbed to do so, thry saY.
said Jaw Shau-kong a legislator. tions. Cigarette wamet may
courage its people to smoke, why rines, cach of whosc
causc of American ada. They hire rettos accounted for lcas than 1 per
young attractive po-ras-6l girla cent o tbe market
wearing short skirts to give P cig. posed striet quotas € forcig
and then it becomos a habit. It' cigarettes and imposed rtiff tariffs.

the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials & tbey rosent loe television or s newspapers. Nor
The government agreed to allow markets lo producta that endanger Tbey can advertise only through
otbers into the business only under poople's health, like cigarettes and posters hung near cigarette racks of

sales à really burts our feelings, sold,

have soared, generating much- Iu, the United Sustes docs not en

to Taiwan? Younger

the Unitod States are down . femaics arc smoking 1 lou 8 Before last year, foreign ciga
According to the U.S. Depart- arettes free la nightclubs. k's i cigarettes, benand imports at à
asbrt of Aghoulture, poople in Tal- difficult for funak boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed to sell

immoral.

2 . rerult, imporied cigaretie cost

0/9/9000S2