$58
Peptide Hormones. Growth Factors. and Soma H (ed): Placenta: Basic Research for Clinical Applicauon. Int. Conf. on Placenta. Tokyo, '0661 Basel. Karger. "1661 dd 105-114 Isolation of a Xenobiotic Metabolizing Cytochrome P-450 (P-450sok) with No Aromatase Activity from Placental Microsomes of Both Cigarette-Smoking and Yoshio Osawa. Tadavoshi Higashiyama. Kenji Shimizu' Endocrine Biochemistry Depanment. Medical Foundauon of Buffalo Rescarch Insutute. Buffalo. N.Y., USA
Placental Proteins
Nonsmoking Mothers Nobutaka Yoshida'
COPY
FILE
The presence of different monooxygenase activities has been docu- mented in buman placental microsomes. The predominating cysochrome P. 450, that of androgen aromatase, catalyzes the biosynthesis of estrogens (1). Aromatase P-450 has been tbe object of numerous studies to determine its mechanism of action and to purify it [2, 3). Gough et a [4) reponed the presence of another enzyme system which catalyzes the hydroxylation of xenobiotic substances. It has also been reported that a placental cytochrome P-450 is responsible for the hydroxylation of benzofa)pyrene via aryl hydro- carbon hydroxylase [5-7). The low content of the responding cytochrome P. 450 in human placenta and instability during purifcation have made it difficult to isolate any other active P-450 enzyme. As a side benefit gained from our procedure to purify and characterize catalytically active aromatase P-450 (3). we found a fraction from the immunoalinity chromatograph; which ahowed a high level of xenobiotic activity with little contaminating aromatase activity. Tbrough the use ofconventional purifcation procedures. we obtained a xenobiotically active P-450 with no aromatase activity. Previous studies on aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity have demon- strated higher levels of this activity in smokers but not in nonsmokers (8, 9). "Postdoctoral Research Fellows OD leave from tbe Depanmen of Obsteinc and
Gynecology. Okayama Univernty Medical Scnool. Okayama. Japan
PUBLICATIONS
028242
