True-faise Questions S the Chenistry and Psychophys lology of Odor end Flavor 1. H F Sone nodorn workers suggest that accurate SeAsurAmeD of vibrational frequency (in the for infrared, for exemple) ef an unknown odoraot will pernit prediction of its quallty and intenslty. T a No lenental substance, not even halldes or ozone hos eny odor; Instead they react with the mucosa foraing new products which are smellod; buf Sone odorants have sterlc or vibrational propertles which force the concluston that they aro odor less whon they are not 11. - F Present evldence strongly suggests that different parts of the olfactory receptor aren, Ilke the retina in the eye, are que itty-spoelfle. TF Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor T No one yet has . re clue as to the criticol relation between the molecule and the receptor which pernits an odor perception. -1 The greater the secretion rate of mucous or sallve, the higher thelr pH, and both pl end tomperature Influence the quality of sensation in the 111 I F The Ideal instrumentel detector would respond to odors in the sono Quantitetive range an does an aninal or human sub ject. T - Such an Ideet detector has not been developed. > : Iasan observors with head In fixed position con by virtue of the two Indoponter.t nostrlis easily discern stereo saoll effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier i ndorant is at the right or left hand, muche as oe uses his tue ears in locating the source of sound. TF For certaln musk-liko compounds, forty motecules are sufficlent to trioger . humon olfactory response. Adaptation 01 one olfactory quality does not significantly reduce sensitivity to any other dissimiian quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all sisllor quelities. - By employing sini larities nethod of conparing qualitles, one con nowr obtain Identity and degrees of difference without recourse 9 froble- à TE Hunger lowers thresholds siightly to some food quallties but not for TF it is now possible to Identify the Intensity and quality of certain given stimull sieply by expert examination of the electrophysiologice record taken from appropriate odor or taste neuroos TF Electrical stimuletion of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkatind" quality. - F Direct etectrical stimutetion of the olfactory se a has successfully accompllshed. Although total anosela Is rore to humans and ageusia even rarer, there ls evidence that in analogy to color vision deflciences, sone are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while having norna sensitivity to others. Toplcal anesthetics applled to the tongue . hr nu that dlfferent qur Itles - Certain endocr ine disense entitles nake It possible for nose people quite sensifively to "sneli" such "odor less" substances es sucrose or sodium chloride and thelr sensitivity to both teste and odor can be reduced to noreal by manipuletion of endocrine levels. - Premenopausa wonon at the time of ovulation find certaln odors disegreeabie whlle at other times In the menstrunl cycle these - we or
somne elements possess toste.
surface In order to be see led.
chemicn! senses.
V.
s01e words. others.
yer beon people
vIL.
5029
of toste disappear at dlfferent rates.
they wlr Judge qulte pleasant.
