HKB2228112 SANTA BANBARA SAN14
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
a - > IAPARIME 7 - summes January 3, 1977 Dr. William H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Research roundation 715 Muir Lands Vista May La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. fishman: and Salk.
a
1A 1 a muse :
We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of the La Jolia rescirch Locmunity. In particclar, the activities of the la Jolla Cancer Research Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes should fit in well with ongoing activities noi only at UCSO but also at Scripps The establisnnent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental prublems is partisularly iecly. It will be o grat potential inportance for pulling tegetter wort, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, character iztaion and deterniniation of the significance of hunan oncodevelopmental antigens such as alphafeteprotein and carcinuesbryonic ant iuens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship of increased seruia concentrations of AFP to presalignant lesions or carcinogen exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systers clearly derion- strate tnet anirals pasodxa to hepatocarcinogens have elevated serum AFP concen- trations prior to developrant of melionant tumers. It is hoped that system:tic study of human scra frum differect sources vill determing if serus AFF concun- In addition. the role of env romental factors such as hormonal influences on the production of oncodevelopsent.a gene prshats can be further explored in different sy:tess. Such data ivalics that (la prod;ution of ohcodavelopmental gene product, by tunor ceils is net a fixed property of 2 given tumoir but is He look foneard to working with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the important subjec of oncodeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinogen exposure.
subject to enviroumental controls.
expression. Best regards. Stewart Sell, M.D. Professor SS/nb
