BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
a
Area stores
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For the Dally Camera nors. kids. ka;
referring to the Increased enforce- were issued a summons penally TUI selling tobacco to. a m pou; to ainAng cigaretles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busi-. Store clerks unlucky enougb.to down on selling cigarettes 01 mi- Sudneadas appoar LE court. The. maximum The sting. conducted on the eve noris a 002S. fine of the American Cancer Soclety's The Supa involved two toams. Great American Smokeout. was in- Each included u uniformed omcer. tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain çlothes omcer. and two legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High Schoolgirts, who Police targeted Ras stations, con: Riris" parenis signed a waiver al. venience, drug, grocery and dis. lowing them to talse part ur thc.op: law has neverbeen enforced, said The juvenlles ware told not to Boulder Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "We're letting the stores know had 8 show identification.
nesses this week during a crack.
"counil stores. Until recently, the eration. thie io going to happen, ahc sald,
the cigareites. and, if asked, they (Sce BOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores ' for cigarette sales to minors At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry 28uh SL, one of the girts asked when she was issued - sum the cashler for a pack of Mart oussuour gaid she was a stu- boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- dent and couldnt puone me ness, In plain clothes, poops UL court costs. Halikeness pou to -tine hehind her to witnese thç A108U02 hér, saying slae could: A placard near the cash regis. the Distriet Attorney to do cam 1 ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity açrvice instradof paying clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clorks, not the store own cation. The buyer produced lier ers ot manugers, have to pay the she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l du it to .ysund ed at the license, act it down on stores or clerks, she said. "Al-: the counter, and sold her the though, when you scc clerks cry: Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted 15: up and identified him Lotorgs and cler a al all bur four "When I see chem ask for an year. The Arst sting. conducted. sting E I think they're going to re. 51 September, targeted 16 stores: fuse the cale,' Haukeness sald. und ST clerks received sum:
(From Page (OT
The clerk at Colony Market.
transaction.
prububly work out a deal-with
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the fine, driver's license, which showed court costs.
cigarettes. stepped summons.
ing, you might think otherwise. + recelved summonses. punas tobacco sale monses.
a3 a police officer. Manka came In and wrote the clerk a This wock's "But they never do."
operation was the. this :
