a
THE LOWEST
Marilyn . Sar MARILYN vos SAVANT
SMOGVHSHEA0 THEM ALL.
A freg fel lete - deep. Each day he ped two foet E wall and sild back down one foet each aight. How maxy days did * take the fregto I out 2 the well? -drisD. Girolamo, Souah Oringe, NJ I'm aware that my answer is going to drive everyone crary, but I'm to risk a anyway: It will take him days. To explain, let's suppose that the well is oaly 2 foet deep. How many days will it take him 8 jump out? Less than one, because he can land a the bottom, then jump dn 10 the edge and climb right out without sliding back at all. If the well is 3 foet deep, bowever, he'll jump dn 2 foet and slide down onc during the fint 24-bour period, then jump out when the next day arrives, with only one full day behind him. if the well is4 foct deep, 0.4 take bim two days, and so 00.. .the number of days always being two less than the feet." i we'n a - 1 - lypocritest K 1 wly de people always say, I hal t everythi leg. when, r, I momey la & that seoms g cencern today's seclety? N Stevens, Youngstown, Ohlo Ithink poople who don't have money say it bocause tbey hope it's true, and people wbo do have money say kbecause they know a true. Why area't the world's ablest people la leadershlp positions? its dismally I to witness so mary coutries' govornments, incleding oars, composed of persons of mediocre mentality. * Chin, Oakland, Calif. Many countries don'thave an ahemative leadership is determined where force. Here, however, we have a elections &4 choice, oftea beoome popularity, pot SISQUOO'ANNInge - - - a * - I - - - - 1 1 1 - "AdMete hune TNTW I - - a NONT I - H i per 1 - - 1 - can MACON TELEGRAIN € NEWS
mg
6mg
mg
3mg.
96400
NOW
-
2mg.
NOW IS LOWEST By U.S. Gov't. testing method.
Competin - be ndec a - - 11 fenn - - - a ROX las hen 05 a K r - S - nicoting SOFTANCX RTER uomo: Img xum - - - dome FTU Mpon JAN 1 an to - a a akoint SOFT MOX E Moma - WFTC I
GENERAL'S 9 SURGEON WARNING: Smoking By Pregnant Women Result in Fetal May
- * - I akating - -
Injury, Premature Birth, And Low Birth Weight.
E 1x, 988 PAGE19
