HERALD STATESMAN a 41 321 41.500 M3N CRK - JETROPOLITAN ama
Smoking and health
start? do ning of cigaret advertising telèvision. In a 1969 sur- vey, 87 per cent reported Today, only 48 per cent en- counter this type of an- and magazines portray smok- ers as young, healthy, sexy, Dr. Berenzweing and his- "We're frying to figure out some way to get people to cut it out, . he said. "They hear the same old do subtle kind of psychological work.. I move that would think peer pres- probably do it best. sure would Thé Task Force report ment" and actually
Knowing the
we
risks, why
By JOANN UNDÉRCOFFLER "You' 've come a long way, Baby!" the cigaret ad exults. "Baby" is seen as the American woman, svelte and smoking, making it in the marketplace right along with her smoking She has, indeed, come a long way. Way back when she didn' : have the voté and it was considered unla- dylike in the extreme to smoke, she didn't have lung cancer either. Women today are falling victim to lung cancer at a . rate Dr. J. Wister Meigs calls "epidemic" in the the Sept. 5 issue of Journal
"There is no question tion of this stuff is what Dr. women who began smoking about. Ask any pathologist on
that the population of sometime after World War smoking, he observed. ihe smokes. "There was a time when lung cancer gle most important factor Society's publication, swering the Most-Often- 'aret Smoking and Lung 11 Cancer, has an easily-un- derstood explanation. inhaled with. the air we.
Berenzweig is talking
II is beginning to turn up who has seen hundreds of having seen or héard an with the malignancies of lung specimens under a mi- anti-smoking television the lung associated with croscope. Ask him whether spot tn the past four weeks.
was almost un- A 1976 STUDY by Yan- nouncement. In the in the rise of the disease. bacco and Cancer brought attractive and well 'Asked Questions about Cig- 1976, the percentage of paradoxes with great con-
kelovich, Skelly and White meantime,
heard of, in men as well as for the American Cancer
brothers
women. Smoking is the sin- Society's Task Force on To- newspapers The American Cancer forth some disturbing dressed.
a An- trends among teenage girls and young women. In the teenage girl smokers grew cern. from 22 to 27 per cent, a fig- ure adding up to half a mil- 13 and "dn These are not giris smoking for status, the re- Although parti- among young women have'
years between 1969 and colleagues regard these
"NORMALLY, particles lion girls age
of the American- Medical breathe fall onto the mu- port states; they are- so-: things and it doesn't any Association. In the state of cous lining of the bronchial cially at ease, confident, good. There must be some
Connecticut, he points out, tubes,' it reads. "This lin: "very put together.
1975 figures show more ing acts like an escalator, lung cancer in women than constantly men in the 35-to-44 age cles -upward by. the whip-
smokers
"earrying
group. tics?, Those habit-forming, throat- are almost as popular with. womep today as they are with men, and the medical community that agrees than 80 mpre per lung cancer is the result-of cigaret smoking, It took about 30 years. for re- searchers' and physicians to pin down the blame, but today they say there. is no getting around it. Dr. Marc Berenzweig heads the public education committee of the Westches- ter Division of the Ameri-- can Cancer Society. As a cancer specialist (oncolog- ist), he is deeply con- TIMN 274642
ping action of 'smalt, hair-" increased onty slightly. Otherwise it's pretty smoke slows or stops the than a' pack a day) has smoke the "all-perva-
Why these grim statis- like structures called cilia, (from 34 to 36 per cent) in grim pieture." : CIGARETS, that's why. the ratë of 1,000 times a the number of heavy smok- poiate two reasons teen- jitters-quelling; minute. Inhaled cigaret- ers among them (more agers 1 young women scratching little villains it action of the cilia and thus grown from 51 to 61 per sive sinoking environ-
which' normally move at' the same period of time,
impairs the cleansing ac-. - tion in lungs that need : most." (the , common joke is;
the it cent, report
revealed. IS and
the op., your own thing" phenomenon. in the minority the Sunos with emphasis on im- and physical well- work' contemplating the health of WE CONDUCTED an in- smokers among our eol-
THE MYSTERY why Countering these with tbe
Anyône who has, éver they smoke at all. The Task hard. fact that smokers arè: "Staying away. from ciga- women are well aware of portance of independent rets?") has seen what hap- the risks they are courting. pens to those little crystals They have been exposed thinking might in the filter after only one to classroom lectures and . being the. possibly re- pack of smokes. They be- films on the dangers of against felt. cigaret, There is an come black with gunk, and smoking. The subject searchers added appeal for. the young while the filter traps some comes up in news reports of this mess, it doesh't get constantly. The Task Force, womeh it all. A 20-year accumula- report states that the one pregnancy; children is important
cent of used a filter. cigaret holder. Force report showed that
both teenagers
most dominant countervail- their to them. force awareness of, ing television anti-smoking commercials has been sharply
reduced because of formal survey of former the cutback in free match- leagues and found one com- ing time following the ban- 'mon element - one way or
cernéd..
37703
