Polluted Data
bn Samuels. Epstein The amhor survevs the record of industri-generated data Emalang un alem . shum 2 constrams un data- from Khass wnbaprun - biased merpretation, ma mpulatmon, suppressmm and a le outrighi de. Mtm HM -ate commompla e. espes ially when prohtable in hnslugirs are mahed Alarmingh. suh a adens e Thow jushes strong reservations as 01 the salulu of ann data developed hn institunons ur indn aluals shune numumin intetests are dueith or Informatum a she cunen of 2 onumis and pulan. al pamer Deurann-making al all lesek of gm. ermment sauklmant the an anlabaity of a buds of m- furmatnon, SHI the hann of w hix h the relatise merits el ahernate poln 5 an y I red and unsidered If thn mlun mattam et data base is 3 nushed ur imal- kl. then nhatert de nams JTE trau hed sausi alsube unpru : malul, threatenng the lahnn of deme The an 1 whr Imang talk u all beneht and usk data. am whn h nust tegulaton des sions are based. unn frem ihe mulunur aes thenwhes bemg regulat. ed Theve data are eithet generated and mter pteted tan and unsersane unden come € le mdusin > aan and sale onw presures
mehn th alle ted
statn wail rmment
a a a :
Buli into thn prens 7 asadre of sonsuhanis, maituses, whuse duens ul appr.n al proni ides the h idenurs of theve consultana are often hidden not
In m-bune M wrutate stall an In sommete ul lalata generalh from presigunis unnerunes or reseanh ln-bung wentsh sull are not mmmune to sun dana unh an addumal manile of auther itv Thr and desepement and murkeing departments. ans onh from the publu bun alu from ther onn unn - Hatin le hunn then produn et jin ew mtn smm sitn ant insumutens The mulununal mictests of thew ne Indunul soma n a e usualh de anded se umsulumts ate ethet neN diskmed to the agens N's unh an amme - N labun atoturs and unn casm en 15 hune auluurs and espen tummitiees thes sil. walue 1 lus mg hus Isen sale ned en the upen in a des lu d dis usualh mamt. paur m combdenual sontan is ts 4 unt mmuns tar ungoken prraurs Comstrann in thr Gennatatum d Dele and man puewlun mfes matan en mtet punatans The new umme problem hab mdustrally gen. mastement harh mha are pruened as the matetes al etated data a av pau qualus Deeph ann emed In muluun erm theugh thn lumed thr malegun d dau sulummed in 1917 te the petepunin a mate hkeh to refiet shent a m tat- lind and Dhug Admant atem (FDA) In mdun Sumant - tpe . Ful - e in whatemal anden Hemmen fewd addeme petams et mall submmed le she
anue
froms Iescars
mastent wath ethn the
at . les an hnter in diav n fum the farl ol SX upatmal and emen san e
market, d plas IN - haudh ofsompenne sapmalan thr irema mng
be let's luh
Ihe an de tes raget fon the I a funur e than he K - = mtere 7 and salues hul 1 : a ile E et E Heuk snthuh et me Fand and sue Medmal : a hane A 3 il. Suena la hum Her afi painh hn Im l'e dinmenting hn pastut In
m malden a haut addane petitions then Commus. sinnen Heshent Lev umplamed Alumnt hall al the Admmststatum har hern ine - phe a hane mul mlematel porsdde, shu regula and the arfens lane
- Dug hathre Hen reparsted
a
suhu tramed
