LOS ANGPLES TIES Los Angeles, California October 20, 1054 a been proved. lale
hairil uudn the premise that hination n' a partirular tvpe a anection hetween riga in each of the three categorics ret smoking and disease 2 has alrcady produced a sale Might Take Six Months one 1 is. so all can be made Dr. E. Cuyler Hammond. that way. Ifnot. the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Carrence Cook Littie. compiete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad- date, said that "some say we visnrv board and scient fie di. tive evidence before develop- try Research Committee. de- ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would nne has said just what the de produre some nf The defni- finitive es idence waud he." iive evidence' to weich Dr He sand he "took issue' with Hammond referred. In his Talk in the Ameriran "We wiil tackle
J1. S cigarette. scientific re- search should prove which should find one, "since peo- ple like to smoke cigarettes." rector of the Tobarro Indus- seribed the outlines of stud- Tackle Unknewns
Calls 'Safe Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming
Expert for
I'niversity atatistician should wait for
more defini
NEW YORK. Ort. 61 ALP this viewnoint,
The rvidence connecting cig- Cancer Societs meeting. Dr eously mans of the unknowes simaltan- arette smoking with hoth Hammond said the relation- la this field of tobaccn use ui lung cancer and heirt dis. ship of cigare:te smoking to relation to human health, : ease is "overw helming" and the heart and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitive once about developing "a safe health, than the relationship findings in an area where cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer 1 program to much suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find a safe cigarette from been done. The program of meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recognizes tha: we Tobacco Industrv Research tnhacen, there are varinus relationshap hetween en rom. Committee ansounced some oftypes of Alters, and these are mental factors, including the details nf its scieatife re arinina terhn'ques 2 curing The most important
system was more important, line of the industrv's research migh: prove surcessful in six do not have today the experi- months, with luck," he said menta! evidence that 5 ner-
Cancer Society today. At the same time the scien- tific advisory board of the srarch program w a ch is he thar
Outlines Deseribed There are various types C tobaren, he said, and it may some fortuitors com- 901 ANGELES EXAMINER los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
mit scientific concl:sions re. sarding the and efert rause smoking and lune cancer nrocect set un was a diree: udy C current lung cancer rases J 10 medical centers in :he - a ed States and Canada,
It will inelude numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokera, an well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. The apecifio research grants, financed Aq the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY ON TOBACCO YORK, Oct. 19. $ < broad stx point study seek Ing lanowledge whether eigareta or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards was announced today. It is the first announcement of a big research program headed Aq the selentifie ad. visory board of the Tobacco In dustry Rese reh Committee
NEW
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
