-x
s/u/ri
SHT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira New York Times Serner
wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotioo about 80 New Taiwan dollars . made cigarettes last year, ringing became an issue even in recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22
TAIPEI I The Marlboro cow. up sales of $119 million. In "9861 trade E between the United New Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for - doy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- States and Taiwan. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes aow hold nearly 81 shieag. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigaretie advertix IOND, His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered a ing is Japan are more liberal. Com- This frenetic, fast-groming 0A- cigaretie exporis last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawod la the United States in 1971. tioe of nearly 20 million peopie A because both Tawan and Japan school students - 12, it years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- Adnooo joy - $16 billion trade surplus with thas the health- -warning labels brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in si billion in new sales. the United States. But those people mandaied in the United States. Wacturers have essentially intro- la Japan, which has a population are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe 'companies say Amencan
and dod-pur-woun stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest. guitar-playing. pep-surar promot- Indood, Asian sales accountod
panies can advertise on TY after
out this city, next to posters & - peroeni. of Winston cigarettes. amoked 34 billion Year - and for the Pigarention time, - Rubstantial number of them were liamsoa made le America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to paonp cigarette advertising to the smoke 300 billion ialand, and that has created a furor. Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled tbe American ing teen-agers o unke dn moking, more than 10 percent last botly deny. operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992. pressure from W ashingson. In the alcohol. & cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw ufacturers at . time whea sales in laws = way up.
"They amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and arc now conducting out cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign Television
er
for
prot
most of the growth in American ha said rocently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out- last dropped long-standiog restrictions. - are DON smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry label that, 50 the Brown & Wil. rette companics promote sigareties roughly transiated, says, "For the
Corp. exporta of like that? It's of 120 million and where people a cigarettes year. in that. American the past year. The market share a S
have O.K. 10 them
sake & health, don't smoke 100 the whole markets. We en much" - - warning much milder "uvu - human being, you wod't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiman not KO much because of the adver. tising as because they are of better there in any- quality and taste beiter. American thing 3uoin with sgaaps way they are cigareties are made of blended to- wascse cigarettos,
Accondinghnmade
cigarette manufactur- Tbey are not allowed 9 advertise La small stores where cigarettes are tions. Cigarette manulacturers may |dom exooods 200,000. Before last yoar, forcign e gir's oent of the market. Taiwan
companics of entic- American cigarettes increased to a vigorously - The goverament-administed dicts that it could grow lo 15 a 20 sales pitch.
a charge a American companies from 3 percent S 1986, the promoting their producta and a bacco and have less which tar than Tai-
are not
Department of Agriculture -oud ihry have no pians lo change theu bleoded. American pressure 55 open their have they pusbed a do so, they say.
* cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials tbey resent 00 television or in newspapers. Nor The government agreed to allow markets to producta that endanger They can advertise only through otbers into the business oaly under people's health, like cigareltes and posiers hung near cigaretie racks or year since stiff restrictions on for. "This really burts our feelings, sold, as well as through promo- A American cigarettes UT Taiwan II.. tbe United Shau-kong Sustes docs legisiator. not en- aiso place 120 E - year in magi. have soared, generating much- courage its people to smoke, why zines, cach ol whoec diroulation acl. and tbe number ol anti-smoking causc of American ada. They hire rettes accountod for less thàn - According to U.S. Depart- arettes free in nightclubs. Ws a cigarettes, banaed imports at meat ol Agriculture, people B. Tal. difficult for Sunak boys to resist, 70,000 retail outlets licenaed to sell
tised, altbough it does pow,
a
peadod prowth for American man- axport to Taiwan? Younger the Unilod Suates are way down and females are smoking .
Porple pho-riak-61
young attractive immoral. -
ga forde
the
wearing short skirts 8. pive a cig posed strict quotas 8 and then it becomas a habit. It's cigaretter and imposed stif tariffs.
Aia result, imported aigaretie cost
