SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43

In a cross-sectional investiganion in one building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validased
complains associased with the "sick building syndrome" questionnaire. The symptoms were more common .B build.
were measured on e linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and
Ar the same ame, the micro-environment (environmental humidification. irrespective of the abe of the buildings. A
characseristics 5 the breathing zone rather than area direct relationship berween the level of complaints and air
samples) a characserized by measuring 'ammundus quality parameters was nos described. Skov et al. (1987) ex-
relacive humidiry, respirable suspended perticulases, car. amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern 1
bon dioxide, noise level, lighaing insensiry, relative a town halls and 11 older control buildings. A level of symp
midiry, and airflow. No relarionship a seen berween I : related OI - "feecing" factor (carpets, upholmery
che degree of symptoms and age, educarion, or duranion and horizontal surfaces) ad the "macro-moleculer compo
of employmenu ar the building or nime spent s the build- nent" of dust. They abo demonstrated a relationship between
Sur on a daily basis. Starisnically, complainss were the number of houn spent photocopying and using carbonless
significanaly more frequent among Bupous 3 Envi- copy paper and the level of complaints. Other srudies have
ronmensal characteristics associased 1 * increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985)
complaint levels in this group included decreased airfow and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute
models, shere a an association berween respirable au- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome by -
pended particulases and the levels of boch mucous I suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et
brane and rystemic complaints. Satisfaction wish she F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif.
I environment a predicted by percepaion of draft ferences la the concentrations of eaviroamental polutants
insensiry a also associated 1 complaints. aure strate a relationship berween symptoms and both area
i of the sick building syndrome should examine ples measuring dust and a "macro-molecular" fraction, ap

.
-

velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended par. a indoor air quality complaints.

riculases and dry-bulb semperature. In 1
did nor clearty contribuse a she degree of sympson
alshough regression models PIP suggest char compl
were nor independent of chermal paramesers.

Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
berween rooms in a mechanically and a naturally veutilated
building. They studied the rooms with the I comp
I and used area samples. Skov et d (1967) & des
Area samples is buildings may not be representative of
the exporures la different points in a rooms. Physical
characteristics such as windows and partitions, computers,
and shelving may infuence air currents. Radiant heat may

multiple exposures simultaneously R 1 prycho- in area I
social meaures or idenaify predictors of complaints in

indoor spaces.
INTRODUCTION

Complaints sermed the a building syndrome" bave lead OI unevea distribution of pollutants. Finally. most -
led to numerous investigations in the last is I They are hutants resuk from point souroes, os they will be diluted es
thought to occur primarily in newty constracted otice 1 subject .a farther removed from the source. The micro *
d and, at least in the past, were thought to be due to viroament around desks and within cubicles may have very
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem, a different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroo-
wide variety of causes have been identiled in specific I ment of a building. In addition. all applied occupational and
inctuding inadequate temperarure and relative I 8 environmental health research that attempes OI relate dose o
trol. noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds beakh effects suffers from the problem that doee a penerally
and formaldehyde. microorganisms, eaviroamental sobecco measured at several points in time and then extrapolated 8
smoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decades
spent & contaminated air and boiler fumes. fibers released * most heakh effects are measured as a - 1 of
from duct linings, and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of I
A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms Keu change not merely trom
et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri- day os day but from hour to hour, 1 a stratep must 3
(Robertson t al. 1985) - unable to identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the micro
wet-bulb plobe temperature. dry-bulb temperarure (temper- environment and set these characteristics a relation o the
ature), relative humidiry. air velocity. formaldehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at a pven point .s I This
itive or negative ons berween several rooms le a building report presents results of a cross sectional investigation of a
with patural and a building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using a self-administered. linear I
where both a of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assesment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
i I a Amauam Profemor of Mediane and ol laduscrial and Environmental Heakh Soences at the Univeruty of Pisburgh Schoot
of Medicine and Publec Heahh. a I a Director. Environmental Heahh and Safery. Camepe-Mellon Univeruty, Pirtsburgh. A

(Kreiss and Hodpson 1964; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986).
marily OI mechanical ventilation The same proup of authors

results in preater than the difference in average samples, and
No investigations in the peer-reviewed literature have

34c5p