page 43
HENINONI Philadelphia, Pa. March 27, 1964
INQUIRER Philadelphia, Pa. March 26, 1964
2 Cancer Types Rare In Nuns, Study Shows PALM BEACH SHORES, Fla., March 26.- An extensive Duns has shed light on some stubborn problems of medical research. it was reported LIVE 6 YEARS LONGER The survey, conducted with that the average age of death "generous collaboration" of was 775 years, about six years church authorities, has enlisted, higher than for American wom- the cooperation of more thanl en in general. 116,000 nuns in 262 religious Dr. Nix said the nuns "get preliminary results pumbers as other women, but based on pilot studies and a por. they seem to get them 10 years tion of the main survey in 1963 later than the average woman." -were revealed here at the There was a strikingly Jow sixth annual American Cancer incidence of cervical cancer, Society Seience Writers' I which Dr. Nix attributed de activity for the I said detected early enough with the Dr. James T: Nix, of New so-called "Pap smear" test so Orleans, director of the study. that et can be treated effective- "But they cooperated because ly. they. feit the knowledge is à Among the nuns, Dr. Nix found portant, and that it was their only one case-in a 93-year-old duty to all their sisters and to: sister. The survey's primary target a fairly high incidence of breast la to pin down some R. the É cancer. lationships of health to celibacy, "The nuns realized abstinence from alcobol or smoking and other environmen- er statistical value and have a One of the striking findings of death information for the cal. the pilot study was that * endar year 1964," Dr. Nix said. mous cell lung cancer-the type As the new data chiefly caused by which makes up the great computers of the Tulane Univer- majority of all lung cancer sity Biomedical Computing Cen- cases today-occurs only rarely ter. They promise valuable in- the among nuns. Dr. Nix added that the re- babits of living on health. a ulcers.
Higher Death Rate
Males Is
By GARY BROOTEN Of The Inquirer Staff America's among
Among
survey of causes of death Thursday. the communities. Some nar.
Attributed
to
Roman Catholic The most striking finding: heart attacks da about the same
Heavy By GARY BROOTEN Of The statistician said
Smoking all deaths for that that cess smokers' deaths with the
of leuding health Wednesday
age group
PALM BEACH Inquirer Staff 1 significant fact in itself. March 25.-A SHORES. Fla. But by comparing the 69,000 ex- much of the long accepted dif. 155.700 excess death. among all ference in death rates between men, the statisticians came to sexes may be attributable to the conclusion that 14.8 percent differences in eigaret smoking. of these excess deaths among not fundamental sex differences. males could be blamed on L. Levin, evidence now indi- Previvusly, a e differences cates that cigarets can be (which are usually expressed America every year. deaths in women) had been attributed Excess deaths can be defined loosely to biological and other loosely as early deaths. In differences between men and lated by comparing deaths calcu- "It la important lo remember general life expectancy tables. He said tte tact thal the Dr. Levin. chief of epidemi- S a - geo n General's
Furthermore. said Dr. Morton smoking. blamed for E minimum" of 100,000 excess sinoking studies, they are among smokers at each level with deaths expected from ology at the Roswell Park Memorial Institute in N. Y., made his sixth annual American Cancer Society Science Writers' par here. 1ie offered higher male death rate can be attributed le smoking. The reasoning runs uke In the 25 typical year (1960), smokers. These men ably would not have died presum. that year had they not been smokers. The excess deaths among smokers constituted 20 percent
celibacy and good hygiene. Can- cer of the cervix is a common disease among American wom- type of en, although it can now 8
DUTY TO HUMANTTY "This in unusust an
as a longer life expectancy for women. that other factors are at work,' age Dr. Levin said. Advisory Committee report on smokin; Buttalo, did not give a figure for tota: remarks at the excess deaths due to smokins "underscores the magnitude et Semi this public health problem." Dr. Levin reported on the figures indicating first 300 patients who had gone that nearly 45 percent of the throush the institute's Ameri can Cancer Society-aponsored research project on smokers withdrawal clinics, but gave ou this: ase statisties on how many had to-64-year group. quit smoking. 155,700 more men than woaten He said preliminary results died in Amertca in a given indicate that an compound, Lobeline. h elp s In the same year, there were smokers quit, but only while 69.800 excess deaths among male they are taking it.
all humanity." tal facior 1 -
On the other hand. there was larger series would be of great- already started collection of smoking. are being processed la the big formation on the influence of
that a nun pour in, they
ligious communities' no-smoking rules seem a likely reason for strikingly low incidence of bleeding or perforating peptic Preliminary resalts from the main study were based oa 575 of the 1116 deaths reported in the communities last year.
antismoking
heavy
1005151230
