NEW: YORK POST, FRIDAY, MAY- 17, 9661 1- NEWYORKPOST Ansevaca oldes contiononsly pronished aisiry meespuper
Anti-smoking skulduggery leading opponents. cigarette Scruggs insists he didn't no danger to human uments. Perhaps not, "buy" doc- tobacco industry. Suddenly it's revealed enterod the banking business, # is un- that he is secretly receiving a salary from liams clear Ayas Scruggs pmom provide Wil- same lawyers have bought the re- Moreover, how are reasonable people to searcher a house and have ço-signed two interpret Williams "salary? car loans for him. In his defense, the sci- This is not the first time Scruggs has Question: How would the media likely Brown & Williamson executive Jeffroy react? A huge brouhaha 01 say the Wigand. latter's CBS News promised to pay the The scientist's research, whatever ita Williamson sued Wigand for breaching actual merits, would buried under a his contract's confidentiality clause dur- mudslide of derision. xe tobacco indus- ing a widely reported appearance on "60 grounds for attempting to buy a wit- CBS lawyers, fearing that the offer to Now let's change a few details. Say the preted as an inducement to break the scientist la a "whisticblower" who asserts contract, initially scotched the that the tobacco industry is fully aware After the substance of Wigand's segment. charges that cigarette smoking is lethal and has hit the newspapers, his interview was worked to conceal this fact for decades. eventually aired. "loans," rather than working ""Enves for to- suffered an embarrassment when a for- bacco industry, are in fact spearheading mer Philip Morris employee recanted tes- There you have the chain of events that Drug Administration (FDA) actually unfoldod recently in a Louisville, Jerome Rivers, a former manufacturing Ky., courtroom. Yet the near-silence sur- supervisor for the conglomerate, with- rounding the incident has been deafen- dréw his claim that Philip Morris rou- Merreli run the story on Page One, reported that "evidence" to justify regulating tobacco as representing Brown paralegal Wil- Critics incessantly portray the made internal uct that millions of corporate documents available to attor- After these shenanigans, Americans # la clear lawyer Richard some of tobacco's foes Scruggs one of the tobacco industry's take a careful look in the would mirror. well 85
Imagine this soenario: A scientist who claims to have discovered that heaking poute to testify on behalf of the tobacco lawyers. It also emerges that the entist insists that, except for the it's all just a loan. least. ness.
health
But unless Aire has with such substantial "loans. been involved with a subsidized whistle- salary, blower: He also represented former legal fees in the event Brown & pay Wigand's legal costa pmoo be inter- The lawyers providing the and Meanwhile, the anti-tobacco forces also the campaign against it. timony he had given to the Food and tinely measures and adjusts nicotine lev- infisa (The FDA hoped to use this Williams, a former for a drug.) a law liamson tobacco $109,000 received a ns amoral, even ita mortgage other financial consists though frasqesace in selling a induntry rewards. Williams legal prod- EESA suing the tobacco KONUS benefactor companies. when the subject of ethics comes was "AYS do
BS would be roundly condemned on ethi- Minutes.
Today, one of the few papers to els.
