RAP

MERICAN JOURNAL OF
Public
Health

Editorial
Volume 77, Number a
Alfred I MD. MPH

May 1907 Established 1911

EDITOR Less Hazardous Smoking and the Pursult of Satistaction
Cigirettes deliver drugs: al rool smoking is drug laking Scentitic wurk has
conhrmed nicotine as a powerfully reinforcing. psychoac tuve drug For the consum
ASSISTANT EDETOR er. then; ulra low-yield cigarcties raise, the simple issue uf drus cultang ue
! a I DYPH adulteration. The unsarisfactoriness of Tultra low yieldigarerestes it een mahe 4 at ay
of customers for these products even in healsh conse nous Cahfornia As muted Aq
Maron and Fortmann in this issue of the Journal, only - N per <ent of MIN in a
EOITORIAL BOARD population based sample smuke cigareties in the rangsof a lu mg na seting a
Mary F. 1 DPH (1907) 2mg "lar Despie the publicny about dincase nsks of smuking and she wadespre L
Chaiperson belief thal ultra low PHA cigarettes are less harardous must smukers will nue stans
Doris 1 RN D-PH (1989 the sireet for these cigareties, let alone walk the advenised mule
No doube smokers have routinchymed ulira lom yicle a garelies and just de
Joy di Dryfoos: MA (1909 routinely have rejecied ihem a unsainlying A mg a - mg nacuting - a
Manin s. Favere no (1988) delivers 4 so per sent diluting air in tach ouf 3 en by ofhual smok ang ma fane
Frederick C Green MD (1988) Those smokers who karn the unchs of compensatory smuking are mure hkely lu
Mary Grace Kewar DIPH. MS (1988) persist in smoking these cugareties than are those smukers whe du not de aclup
salisfaciory compensation ieu hniques For ulira low yid cugarenes. the main
smoking les hniques are blus hing the diluting an venis on hiters wih lips ur Anger
Kenneth a Rogers, MD MPH (1987) taking larger puffs, and, as Maron and Formann remund un. semply smuk ung mane
Zena I MA MB (1989) cigarenes per day A smokes sell selection beas icompensators remain Thin
Fermando x Trevine. PhD. MPH (1987) compensalors kave) may cause much of the discouraging panern Lount in and
Esperimenul Evadens a Recent eapenments shuw . more ene ouraging pis ture
M Devid Wray, MD, MPH (198 of whai mught be ganed frum the wndespread une ul ultra lew yield Kar stic by
amokers who refuse to quit Surgous West, e al randomiy assegned 14 smukes lu
remain wwh their own brand (average - 2 micotine, 14
STAFT le switch le ue ultra low yeld brand 0 ma ncutine
William H. McBeash. MD MPH smoking. the witra low yield proup had plasma nicoline levels thal were unh 40 per
Eserwive DirecsoriManugins Edner cent of (he own brand poup 19 4 ws 22 a ngimi) carbon monos ade ie vels Jiflered by
Adnenne à no x per sent uo - : JJ 2 ppm) (Alshough nue nused in the Meshud
Pablin reriona Dhreener explicaly instrucied not to block bises vens IK West. Personal Communn anunji
Doyne Badey Simularly. in the expenmental cumponent ul theur report, Benuwita et a fund
Aasistent Manages f panial compensation in smukers whe were forsed le smose ultra lu a 2 core ne:
Marva Barmet (Behavioral blux hing of Alier venus was not forbudden in thia Mudy. but I hare been
Edisorial A anistant discouraged by delaals of the procedure a
The combuned lesson of the cruss sectnonal surveys and the forced seals hing
Proder - f expenments is 2 al there is lo be ma umal progress with the cunent siyle ultra hue
I Dobbs yick cigarene as une heds lo be ens ouraged mure fors cefully (hne uf the is ans
Prader I Adrernaing Auranent smokers dun't put up -uh ultra lue ychls a that higher yelu cigarenes ate suly an
easy purchase away. Imagine shus date luver las ed with en a Sell - hate un a
desen nland sucha candy mght veem real but in well stux ked candy stuse ihe N a
CONTRI BUTING EDITORS pseuloc hox olates would gather dust eapecially d ihey were nue
- Aanas JD, MPH the more satislying hocolates.
cigareste manulacturers were requared a i only F
I Healsh Then e New (guarding against mure problemate filter desgns"). theve cigaretie mughi ha -
1 H Tahon. MD, DYPH grealer effect on eapesures lo smoke toxins than the) du in the wule upen muil > Jus
Neers I she Fiele a drug conient of medcations in Mnky regulated su shuuld be Jrug vack of gateste
Jean [ E amoke Many smuken would over smuke these cigaressen, by break Bur ull hlte a
I I blocking vent i and by smoking grealer numbers per day And sume smuh a

Irene H. Butier, no (1967
Jean I MD MPH (198)
Philie o Weiker, MD (198)

Julia A. Waller, MD 16061 reviewed in the curreni repon

tar and 13 smuk :
tar . Cher 10 days ul
en a

Michel Honen
FEXZ: 1 and she i
Barbure G Rosenh i PhD
5 M 1907, Val 77. No

heape ihun
parctio

ir

539

2501662717