HKU2223022

Life Seiences Vol. 15. PP. 1291-1300
Printed in the 3 A.

Pergamon Press

NETAROLISM b BENZO (A)PRENE BY KICROSORES FRON
TISEVES a PRECOLANT AND TITAL MAMNTERE
Irene i Mang, Ronald E. Rasmunsen, and : Timothy Crocker*
Can - Besearch Institute, University of California, I Prancisco, and Depart-
ment of Community and mvironmental Medieine, Univereity of California, Irvine*.
(Received in final form 26 August 1974)
Sumary
Pretrestment of hansters with benzo (a)pyrene (BaP) grestly incressed
3 si vitre netabol ise of Bat by lung alerosonns fron prognant har
atars, and 3 i effect on the metabolim of BaP s iiver miere-
momes. The produetion of various metaholites of Bap by lung miere-
sonos war inereaned to different axtentar 3-hydroxy-naP (3-CH-BaP)
was one of the najor matabolites the netabolic yielda ot 9,10-
dihytrodihyplroxy-haP (9,10-diol) and 7,0-diol vere incrensed sore
than that of the 4,5-diel. In ! i of 1iver nierosones, only the
yielde of 9,10-dioi and 7,8-diol vera incressed ovar the contrel
leveis, The presence of eyclohexene oxide in the incuba tion *
tures decreared the production of the diole. Basal-level anryme
activities in placental, fetal 1iver, and fetal akin alcrosones in
metabolizing Rep vere very lov, Pretreat tnent of pregmant hainaters
with Bap indaced Bap-met taholizing enzymes in fetal tierue 3 fold.
Bense (alpyrene marl ie . carcineser and anvironmental conta a nant that is
found in eoal car. mineral oil, car exhaust, tohacco saoke, moked foods, ete.
(1). In vitro stadice shoved that netabolie activation of Bar ie required for
ita intaraction vith proteine and nuclele acide (2,3) Rarller studies with
: liver pr eparations :4,5) and hanster liver mieror - a (6,7) shoved thas Bar
le metahelised minly 8 phenolie and dihydrodihydroxy (diell der 'eeajasay. and
to quinones whieh are ensynatie or air oxidation peoducte of unstable phenolic
metabolitas (4,5) as vell an some unidentified nore polar metabolites, The
metabolien of Rat has generally been neamured A the production of 3-hydroxy-
BaP (3-ON-RaP) eich je often one of the major netahol ites in aaata (3). 3-0H-
DaP ie tosie te mitured calle (9), 1 it shovs vary listle interaction w th
DHA in vitro (6) 3 has not been shown to 3 carsinocenic. & the other hand,
K-regton epoxides ef relatet polycyelie aronatic hylrocartone (PAN)bind to cell-

1291