SHGUONSNOHNGMMADRU *
August 18, 2000
Via Façsimile and Overnight Mail
Re: Independent Auditor'sNotice of Intent to Issue L Revised Final Calculations for the Tobacco L itigation Master Settlement Agreement Subsection VI(c) Account (Subsequent) Payments Due March 31. 2000 and Subsection IX(CXI) Account
Payments Due April 15. 2000 - NOTICE A 0033
Dear Notice Party:
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, in its capacity as Independent Auditor to the Tobacco Litigation Master Settlement Agreement ("MSA") provides the following notice a indicate the Independent Auditor's intent to issue revised detailed calculations of amounts to be paid into the Subsection VI(c) Escrow Account (Subsequent) and the Subsection DX(cX1) Escrow Account ("3" Revised Final VI(c) Calculation" and puEn Revined Final DX(c)(1) Calculation, respectively). All capitalized terms used in this notice, unless otherwisc defined herein, shall be defined as in the MSA. The information contained in this notice is considered confidential and should not be used In light of severa) data-related issues raised in dispute letters authored by the National Association of Attomeys General ("NAAG") and one of the Participating Manufacturers, as well as newly provided data by one of the Original Participating Manufacturers this weck, the Independent Auditor believes that the issuance of a puf Revised Final VI(c) Calculation and a puE Revised Final LX(cX1) Calculation ia necessary. It in anticipated that these calculations would be issued on Friday, August 25, 2000. In regards to payments made by those Participating Manufacturers having payment obligations resulting from the R Revised Final Calculations issued July 31, 2000, the Independent Auditor intends to withhold instructions to the Escrow Agent for disbursement of deposited funds to the Settling States until any additional payments required by the 3" Revised Final VI(c) Calculation and 3" Revised Final IX(cX1) Calculation are made. Over and underpayments will be treated in the manner set forth in subsection XI(i) of the Finally, with respect to the issue of dispute deadlines raised by NAAG, the Independent Auditor believes that subsection XI(i)(1)(A) of the MSA requires related payments to be made # not more than 20 days after receipt of the notice... 11 and disputes to be made = not more than 15 days after receipt of such notice.. * Therefore, as previously stated, the Independent Auditor anticipates issuing the 3" Revised Final VI(c) Calculation and 3" Revised Final IX(c)(1) Calculation on Friday, August 25, 2000. Notices of dispute(s) related to these calculations would then be duc September 8, 2000 (as September 9, 2000 falls on a weekend). Payments, if any, would be due September 14, 2000 and disburscment of those funds to the Settling States, as well as the funda deposited by Participating Manufacturers in response to the July 31, 2000
for any purpose other than as contemplated in the MSA.
MSA
calculations, would occur September 15, 2000.
:
Notice ID 0033
