True-raise Questlons on the Chenistry and Psychophyslology, of Odor end Flavor
I. T Sone nodorn workors suggest that nocurnte nensurenent of vibrattona!
frequency (in the far infrared, for exenple) of an unknown odorant
will pernit prediction of its quallty and intensity.
- No elenental substance, not even halldes or ozone has any odor; Instead
they react with the mucosa forning new products whlch are smel lied; but
T Sone odorants have sterle or vibrational propertles which force the
cone luston that they are odor less whon they are not.
Present evidence strongly suggests thet different parts of the ol factory
receptor ares, Ilke the retina In the eye, are Qua ilty-spectfic.
H Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor
T No one yet has a fire clue as to the critical reletion between the
molecule and the receptor which permits an odor perception.
T The greater the secretion rate of muco a - or sallve, the hl gher their "Hd
and both pti and tomperature influence the quality of sensation in the
111. - The ideal Instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sane
quantitative range as doos an an Ima or human subject.
TF Such en Ideat detector hes not boen developed.
Iv. L 00 Haman observers with head In fixed position can by virtue of the two
Indopondent nostrils easily discern stereo snoll effects, 1.e. they
can tell whotier au odorant Is ot the right or left hand, sucte os one
uses his tue ears in locating the source of a sound.
- For certaln musk-liko compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to
trigger a hunon olfact ory response.
Adeptation to one olfactory Que lity does not significant ly reduce
sensitivity to any other dissiel lar quality, but does reduce sensi-
tivity to all sinllor qualities.
- By enploying a simliarities aethod of compering qualities, one con now
obtain Ident Ity and degroes of difference without recour se to troshle-
VI. - Hunger louers thresholds slightly to some food qunlit ies but not for
- It in now possible to identify the Intensity and quality of a certain
given stimull sieply by expert examination of the electrophysiological
record taken from approprlate oder or taste neur rons,
T Electrical stimulation of taste in nan yields only reports of "sour"
and a "metallic" or "alkaline" quality.
TF Direct electrical stimuletlon of the olfactory senso has nover yet beon
successfully accompilshed.
VII, TF Although total anosela Is rare In humans and ageusia even rarer, there
is evidence that In analogy to color vision deficiences, sone people
are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities whi le having normal
sensitivity to others.
TF Topical anesthetics applled to the tongue show that different quelities
TF Certaln endocrine diseese entitles nake = possible for sone people
quite sensitively to "smell" such "odor less' substances os sucrose or
sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be
reduced to normal by manipulation of endocrine levels.
TF 4 enenopausal wonen at the time of ovulation find certain odors extrene ly
disegreeable whlle at other times In the menstrual cycle these seme odor

sone elements possess taste.

11,

sur face In order to be see led.

chemical senses.

v.

sone words.
others.

of taste dis sappear e different rates,

they wlu Judge quite pleasant.

Ovi