I:K ANFILTER WI INS 2D CONTRAGT Another Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs de Use It By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pali Mall of Canada, Ltd., the second-larg. est cigarette sompany in that contracted yesterday countrage with Strickman Foundation to pay a penny a wed royalty for use of the filter E vented by Robert L. Strickman. The company, which is per cent British-owned, but Canadian-managed, sells 1? bil- lion cigarettes a year, very few of them in the United States. The agreement was the second In two days with the founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company. with annual salcs of more than 18 billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement) that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. Strickman, was surrendering its rights to the filter to the foundation. The university said it hàd "made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering a highly con- troversial und competitive com- mercial field." Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financlal stake in the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to it last summer by Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set up on Wednesday by the New Jersey chemist as a charitable institution -to ad. vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has received $200,000 in advance > Katz, Accoraing unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts cauld eventually bring In about $5 million a yearin royalties. Mr. Katz, a Jawyer who. Is secretary of Seagram's Distil- leries, said that Rothman's Pall nfall of Canada ted been test- ing the. Strickman filtor since last August. Wilmat Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman' w said of the device: *We are sntisfied that nothing exists to a which gives comparclle filtration without adversety affecting the flavor of the cigarette. : takes out 'mere suspect : ments withia the suniext of ac- ceptabla flavor, we feel that as * cigarette compar shnuld 5 ir
New York Times March 1, 1968 Page 34
5 Claims Are Disputed The claim that the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- cigarette flavor has boen ER subject of controversy. Among the most outspoken critics of the filter has been! F Scnator Warren G. Magnuson % Washington, who has con- tended that its claims have been Breatly exaggerated. 5 NnouL, many governmental and privale health reports byj. experts have called cigarette [tar and nicotine health hazards, Columbia University, in a re. port on the Shickman filter made public un Wednesday, avoided making sions. So far no United States ciga- rette companies are beliaved to be close to a contract fox the filter. Experts say that domes- tic companies need not fèar competion in this country from the Canadien cigarettes because of a 15-cont import duty on leach package. - Pall Mall cigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana-! dian concern.
conclu-
rescarch. royalties.
to Robert
:
