PKU

Carcinogenesis vul 11 nu 13 'stet-1zurda rool

Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke
carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyb-1-butandne and
benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of

C3420

chemopreventive agents

Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin
Amencan Flealth Foundation, Valhalla, NY 10595, USA

models examined 01 date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class
of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco
smoke (I). We have chosen the A/J mouse because previous

The purpose of this study SEM to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce
model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced
lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to
by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined
and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated.
individually or in combination. Groups of (emale A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg
were treated by either intragastric gavage (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventiva activities of a aumber of
intraperitoneal injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP,
and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and 7.12-dimethylbenzlbenzialanthracene (9.10).
either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse ol evaluate the effects of
forestomach were counted. The i.g. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK
proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4.11,12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse can be replicated
because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate
the Injectlon site and associated mortality. A dose response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by
relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 ral (11,13).
mice killed 9 or 61 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single
treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect to tobacco
of 24 jumol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke. which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The
have been expeeted extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP, are important
when given by the i.g. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either
were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP.
The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted 01 use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to
evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during
dose of 24 jumol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. in addition, the model should be relatively rapid and
subdoses i.g., with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore we examined tumor yields obtained
dosing. This regimen induced 10.524.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for
mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen. 00 weeks, followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61
ethyt isothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a
and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung prelimianry test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC
tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP.
efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility: Its purity was established a HPLC as >997. BaP (98% purity),
Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which Amenican Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were
could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirt containing 5% sorn oil. as prev iously
to play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups et 15 as summarized in Table L At age 7 weeks. each mouse wa
kers auoueing-1-(1Apusd-E)-1-(oUrquesosoujAgnou)- (NNK") treated by intraperitoneal (ip) injection or by intragastric gavage (ig) with
carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung all rodent dissolved in the 0. E used for treatment. Injections and gavages were carrind
*Abbrevlations: NNK. 4-(methylnitrosamino). 1-(3-pyridyta-budumone: individuat dose was cee eighsh of the cotal. Equimolar doses of NNK and
Bat. benzolelpyrena: PEITC, phenethyl isothiocyanaic: BITC, benzyl Baf were used in most of the combination groups, because the amounts of

which these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given

The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively

of NNK and BaP U! combination was established in the
that BaP was more tumorigenic 01 the lung than NNK

Most previous studies in the A/) mouse have examined

Comparisons of

and RaP given individually showed representatives of the lung

in tobacco smoke (11.

edwhy

carcinogens

We sought 2 develop a model which could be used to

5.9 # 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse e V 0.001) and completely
this study provide a convenlent model for assessing the
inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens

inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods

NNK was synthesized in the American Health Foundation Organie Synthesis
BITC (9ss purity) and PEITC (93% (Apand were obtained from the Aldrich
Chemical Company (Milwaukee. WI). Cottonseed oll was purchased from
Female AJJ mice. age 5 weeka. wene obtained from The Jackson Laboranory
(Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the
The desiga of the bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1. The mice were dividec
pulmonary the appropriate chemical in 0. ml cononseed oil. NNK and BaP were bon
out for & consecutive weeks. The toral doses are given in Table Fach
NNK and total carcinogenie polycyelic hydrocurbons ia tobacea smoke are

Sigma Chemical Co. (Si Louis, MO).

Introduction

agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).

and benzolalpyrene (BaP) (1) NNK in a
isothiocyanate, ip. intraperitoncal; is, introgastrie gavage.

I

o Onford Unversity Press

2721