DALLAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Texas April i4, 1954
Tobacco Firms Ask New Cancer Studies representing growers and tobacco tional" statements linking smoking Among those quoted by the com. and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer Inatitute of the United States Gov- relationship of ernment, which said in a 1953 k cigarettes and health and called port that the cause of cancer for exhaustive research to estab- had not been established. lung Several lish the basic cause of the disease. ot the institute's scientists also The tobacco industry research were cited. Others quoted were the Damon issued a booklet con Runyon Fund, which taining previously published state- more research, and called for Chicago à thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgoon Dr. Max who Cutler, doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons may by olher cancer experts that tobac- develop lung cancer partly because ot smoking but that to accept the The earliest, whitten in 1923, sald conclusion of a direct there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientitic relationship none that would produce tuinors. hazardous." apd The most recent, dated last March # smoke in the 16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of lungs were a be done before causes of lung can- have had it long '088 cancer, the we'd all cer or any other kind of cancer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report Litie, The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratory, Bar Har- S January to combat mounting bor, Maine. charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the up of nearly every major cigarette University of Texas School of Medi- nanufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Inaur
NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers. alded picture of the committee ments by itles co causes lung cancer.
8 can established.
director of the Roscoe B. Jackson ance Company and British authar- ities, Neariy all those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until an absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report was described by an industry spokesman as an "in- terim" statement, pending an- nouncement ot the choice of a prominent scientist to supervise basie cancer research de be f- nanced by the industry. That scien- tist will decide how the industry' a cancer-research money is to be spent. No date has been set for his selection. At the Jast count, the committee said; there were more than 850 cancer research grants in the United States alone, "any one of which might produce unlock the evidence to secrets of lung cancer,
