li
a
996
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richard L. Nacye, MD, and Woodrow S. may vary in incidence and Somerect Counties of
Findings Dollinger, MS the men had ever
Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one pationt to another. In coal, roentgenographic categorics for found to co:relate well with quantitative. measurements of a the volume of macules and nodules. recognition of cmphysemo and chronic cor miners with no roentgenographic silica and collagen,
process but a a study of 77 miners of postmortem anatornic dioxide)and collagen content of dust évidence of pneumoconiosis had
rank, low-volatile coal in Cambrin and rykania. Nonc of eentral Pean- ducted betwern pust and 1955 ly the Pennsylvanin Duportmeat of Miner and Mineral Industries stowed an a serage coal dunt bituminus work- free silica cuntent of cunl d. Jat in low in all arenn of Penneyina r . neklom helng greater than $.. H: owever, the mine durt conrentrn. t: e of free nilica In greater far sone a uderground wurkets puch aa Rof ailiva-bearing d The eT cascs pulverin rand. selerted a tu keated Salagne iks ley wharisited rach of fuven pirpase R -neral huspital, and rea. t Quot aul Ithis, The hatch atarted with the patimin Rirts' descriptions of the H: lungs. hen was an) mention of ev .lve pi, :ment, parenchy mul nedul R fina el or any histury of ti. nt's elinical mining. the 14. chart was enan.ind. inforucation enerning noga li and uthr data were esttece: A Wert Vir- Et 1 n as inrludal in the. rtudy unly in specin minen Lad a a ur in tu: irmed ly a - penride retun Vir,it.ia TL. # nail atel Irbeglame tir alway, mine d highrr. in" rmation a a+ ines ine nhtained (itnun nn - N a A Oell. 231 027050
bituminous
pneumoconiosis were anined anthracite roal. Surveys eon- roentgenepraphic ing rhift of exposure jer werk-
nodules, and (2) the silica (silicon pulmonary dust macules and emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspnea in addition lo dust rom 10: to 4GE of Appulachian chitis and coal workers have rorntgeno- lur, graphie evidence of pneu- symptoms, and physical findinge have bern dificalt to make, workers' pneumeconiosis ("black 5 is not a single disenne but a composite uf multiple disorders, each of which and neverity, dupendent gruphie aren, exart orrupational ex. posure, and apparent individual sus ceptibility. : These multiple dis. ordes indude(1)the Fem the hopann. ni nf Pat-be Mhn * Eniseralty Cullgr de * le a Hardr Herda, 4 Houu (t'r Sargs) I Apral 10, 1972 e Vol 220. No 2
Unfertunately. there v:as poor
which appear to be most closcly correlated pulmorale, tle tnu chsdrciers eale fout of uir 11.100,000 fur parides per
with dyspnea. A mumber of ers, The
with
matules
hronchiolitis;(.) centriluhu- Ir Jters and eledrie Ins panlolular, and pararleitaicial I who drill inte onsive ojer. di-eowe prirerses 11. rough a search uf appear to make differing centa ilu : . authera, ographie features of parumorouinsi. L twern tu determine = parn- fur easen muconiunis with disalility - in withent ansuriuted Tue U ere abnormalities Patients Studiod and Methods Patientu- The patients were - un. nr. Thir:y-one had ulwaya mined nf
meconlosia, hut cna relations belween emphysema: und (3) tuirerruluin and nk or encounter
such roentgenugrephic abnormalitics, orusionally othr di ara procesers,
These separate eepecially in tions to disability." h is the proves Another aim is may vary in inridenre sone workers upon gro enigenographic
early
stages." Theau diniculties prol- of the current
ably arie from the faet that roal individoal sumly tn evaluate thir L :" protorul that lavohed every a au-
influences nu the ruentgen- ad Irr than ar yrara of age wine man
maculs (2) oilivasiss primary eral dust durground miners nf hituminuua enal Cralit, Reprim Pete : r M. a 4 11. a > A nerrly nerth "In Pennsylrania W'.
(a) elarunic lehun- frum Penney hania and
ginia. of suthn eatern other 46 had
Hanty Medical C nir . Pens.hunia State lew-rank high-volatib- qual in eumaties rr uned treupational es ME € -
Pr
PUBLICATIONS
10346287
