I Chree Dis Vel. 38 No. 1. pp. 17-26. 1985
Priated in Great Bnitaia Alli rights reserved

0021.9641 85 53 8 000
Copyright C 19E5 Pergamon Iress Lid

PSYCHOSOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ADOLESCENT
SMOKERS BEFORE THEY STARTED SMOKING:
EVIDENCE OF SELF-SELECTION
A PROSPECTIVE STUDY
CARL C. SELTZER and FRANK W. OECHSLI
Peabody Museum. Harvard Universits. Cambridge. MA 02138 and the Child Health and
Development Studies, School of Public Health, University of California. Berkcley.

CA 94720, U.S.A.
(Recrired in rerised form 17 layust 1984)

Abstract Evidence of noncomparability of sell-formed smoker and nonsmoker groups of
adolescents from the Child Health and Development Studies of the University of Califomia.
Berkeley. was found s a study of antecedent psychosocial characteristics (observed at age 10)
before the adoption of the smoking habit. With possible confounding factors controlled, eventual
smokers showed significantly greuter prevalence than nonsmokers of Type A personality traits,
cutraversion psychoticism, anger. and nestless sleep. Eventual smokers were lower in socio-
econ omic satus than nonsmokers. and also cshibited significantly lower mean scores for the
Raven Progressive Matrices and Peabody Picture Yocabulary tesis For cach trait. the trends of
the data were consistent in boys and giris Since many of these traits are shown to "track into
adult life ahere they are then rdated to coronary heart disease. the role of sef-sdection requires
further consideration in causal inferenocs ahout smoking and coronary heart discase

INTRODECTION

Ix RECENT years. many published studies have shown an association that suggests a role
for psychosocial factors in the pathogenesis of CHD [. 2]. In the Framingham Study.
univariate and multivariate anulyses showed a positive relationship of certain psycho-
social factors to CHD and also to cigurette smoking [3- 5]. The pervasive yuestion of
temporal precedence and a priori self-selection still requires further clarification. however.
In the absence of controlled experiments. the effects of cigarette smoking on health have
been inferred from observational studies that compare persons who smoke with
nonsmokers. in these comparisons. the disease outcomes are assumed to occur in cohorts
of smokers and nonsmokers who were nitially similar in all relevant characteristics except
for the difference in smoking habit. Very little evidence has been available. however. to
The unique data of the Child Health and Development Studies (CHDS) of the
University of Califomia. Berkeley, provide uE opportunity to check this assumption by
examining antecedent characteristics associated with teenage smoking [6-8]. The CHDS
ia c prospective investigation of children from birth to late adolescence At various stages
of their development. the children were examined SE to their biological. social. and
is this report, we have analyzed the antecedent psychosocial characteristics of a large
cohort of boys and girls before some of them later began cigarette smoking as teenagers.
Reprint requests should be addressed to: Frank w. Oechsli. Child Health and Development Studies,
This project was supported iq Grant 1447 from the Peahody Mascum Harard Lniversity

verify this assumption.

personality status, as well as environmental and familial influences.

2131 University Ave., Berkelev, CA 94704, = :

8 18/1-8

17