Elu/0o

IHT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Nre ok Times Servier

wan bought 5.1 billion American American cigarette promotion about s0 New Taiwan dollars .
made cigarettes last year, ringing became an issur even in recent pack (982S) compared with 22

TAIPEI The Marlboro cow- up sales of 6115 million. la 9861 trade talks between the United New Taiwan dollars (79 cents)for
boy in his white hat, cigarette F sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Staies and Taiwan. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghng from his mouth, has come 1o eign cigarettes DOw hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits od cigarette advertis
town, His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs. registered a ing is Japan arc more liberal. Com-
guitar-playing. jeans-clad promot. Indeed, Asian sales accounted pive out goto free cigarettes and gifu, an aggressive campaign Television
This (renetic, fast-growing na cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawed in the United States in 1971.
tion of nearly 20 million pcopie ly because both Tawan and Japan school students - 12, i3 years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-standiog restrictions. are DON smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry label that,
year and for the first time, E According to the Brown & Wu- rette companies promote cigareties roughly translated, says, "For the
mbrtantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp.. exporta of like that? It's O.K. lo have them sake of health, don't smoke too
made a America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" warning much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy $16 billion trade surplus with thas the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $i tomig in new salet the United States. But those people mandated in the United States.
Wacturers have essentially intro- ln. Japan, which has . population' are just like robbers. If you are a Tbe companies a3Y American

and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.

panies can advertise on TV after

oul this city, next to posters & . peroent.
a of Winston cigarettes.

AuL, amusement places to 5:50 P.M. and are now conducting

for most 8 the growth in American he said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-

of 120 million and where people

duced cigarette advertising to the
tbe American companies of entic
ing teen-agers 01 take da mmoiing.
* charge the American companies
operation that had monopolized percent by 1992.
the cigarette market bad not adver-
tised, altbough f does now,
The government agreed to allow
.preseure from Washingson. In the alcohol.
year since stiff reetrictions o0 for.
à cigarettes were dropped.
have soared, generating much-
wacturers = - time when sales in
the Unitod States are down
and tbe number of anti-amoking
laws in way 'dn

'un . human being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan

island, and tbat has created furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year that.
Oovernment officials bave accusod imports have more than tripled E

nos oe much because of the adver-
tising as because they are of better
quality and taste better. American
with the way are cigarettes are made of blended to
and bacco and bave less tar than Tai

the past year. The market share of American cigarette manufactur-
ia
American cigarettes increased 5 6 vigorously deny there any-
more than percent last year, thing wrong
they
from 3 percent in 1986, aod the promoting their products say
Department of Agriculture pro . ihry have no plans to change their waacie cigarettos,
Tbey are not llowod to advertine
television newspapers Nor
Taiwan officials say tbey rosent loe
or s
American pressure to open their have they pusbed todo so, thry saY
markets 0 producta that endanger Tbey can adverise only througb
5 small stores where cigarettes are
sold, a well a
sales "This really burts our feelings,
through promo
said Jaw Shau-kong a
tions. Cigarette manufacturer may
rines, of whosc aroulation acl-
cach
export to Taiwan? Younger
dom cxoceds 200,000.
and femaics arc
a lot
Before last
foreign ciga-
smoking
year,
AE
young attractive
cent of tbe market. Taiwan im
po-rak-61 girla
immoral.
A rerult, imporied cigarciie cost

f0

which are not

botly deny.

The Mosgrohegl-adminuuerid dicts that it could grow to S1 to 20 sales pitch.

bleaded.

.others into tbe business only under people's health. like cigarettes and posters hung near cigarette racks of
e American cigarettes in Taiwan N., tbe United Sustes docs legisiator. not en- also place 120 ade . year in maga-

peadod growth for American man- courage its poople to smoke, why

way

causc of American ada. They hire rettes aocounted for lca than per-
wearing short skirts o0 give P cig- posed strict quotas on forciga
and then it becomes a habit. It' cigarettes and imposed stiff tariffs.

According to the U.S. Depart- arettes froe in nightclubs. ks i cigarettes, banned imports at tbe
asbot of Aghoulture, poople in Tai- difficult lor young boys to resist, 70,000 retail oullets licenaed to sell

0/4/90009Z

-
.