P Epldemiat Vol 47. Na. 10, a 1141-1167. 194
Coprright o 1994 Iluvian Sdience Lad
Priated in Great Britain AR righes nacived
0895-4156/94 97.00 +0.00

Pergamon

8895-(356/240000814

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN SMOKERS, EX-SMOKERS,
PASSIVE SMOKERS AND NON-SMOKERS
ALISON THORNTON, PETER LEE* and JOIN FRY
P. N. 3 Statisticr and Computing Lad, 17 Ceder Road, Sutton, Surrey SM2 SDA, England
(Received la reotard form 4 Marct 1994)
Abstract The extent to which current, ex- and passive smoking are associatod with
other risk factors, and the potential for confounding arising from these associations, was
studied using a representative sample of 9003 British adults, The distribution of 33
lifestyle (actors generally considered associated with adverse health were compared in
current smokers, ex-smokers, never smokers living with . smoker ("passive smokers")
and other never smokers. or the 33 risk factors 27 showed a significandly higher
prevalence in heavy smokers than in never smokers and only two showed a lower
prevalence. For many risk factors, prevalence increased with amount smoked, decreased
with time of smoking cessation and was incrcased ie passive smokers. The possible
magnitude of hias from confounding by the risk factors is estimated. It is concluded that
confounding by multiple risk factors may be an important issue in smoking studies
where weak associations are obscrved. This applies particularly to studies investigating
the possible association of passive smoking with various hcakh effects.
Smoking Passive smoking Confounding Bias

INTRODUCTION

gists normally do attempt to take account of

Numerous cpidemiological studies have investi- such differences where relevant to the endpoint
gated the relationship of current smoking, past studied and thus 5 to minimize bias due to
smoking and exposure to environmental confounding. Differences between non-smokers
tobacco smoke ("passive smoking") to mor- exposed and not exposed to environmental
tality and morbidity from a varicty of discases tobacco smoke are less well studied. though
(I). Because smokers and passive smokers are recent reports [4,5] have pointed to a possible
not a random selection of the population, such confounding of the lung cancer relationship by
theoretical possibility that observed differences A study of the literature over many years by
between the groups studied may arise, at least in one of us (PL) has led to a number of pro-
part, dur 8 differences in exposure from other visional conclusions being reached. Firstly,
risk factors and not wholly to effocts of smoking smokers tend to have unhealthier lifestyles than
or of environmental tobacco smoke exposure. non-smokers in a number of respects, so that
Many differences between smokers and non- they would be expected to have higher rates of
smokers, such as in alcohol consumption [2]and many diseases even in the absence of any effect
social class [). are well known and epidemiolo- of smoking. Secondly, for many of these lifestyle

studies have always to take into account the diet.

07
47
2
b
21

factors passive smokers are also somewhat
worse off than non-smokers unexposed to

*Aurhor for correspondence

1143