True-Faise Questiont on the Chenistry and Paychephyslology. of Odor end Flavor le H Sone nocern workers auggeat that accurate menaurenent of vlbrational frequency (in the for infrared, for example) of ue unknown odorant will pernit prediction of ts quallty and intensity. T No elenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone hos eny odori Instead they react with the mucosa foraing new products which ore sme lied; 7 T d Sone odorants have sterlc or vibrational propertles which force the cone luslon 2 they aro odor less whon they are not 11. - Present evldence strongly suggests that different parts of the olfactory receptor aren, Ilke tho retina tn the eye. ere que tty-specifie. T Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor - No one yet has a - clue as to the criticol relation between the molecule and the receptor which pernits an odor perception. T The greater the secretion rate of nvcous or selive, the a gher thelr "sed and both Hd and tomperature influence the quality of sensation in the 111. T The Ideal instrumentel detector would respond to odors in the sono quantitative range as does an a 1 or human sub ject. T à Such on Ideet detector has not heen developed. ean observors with head In fixed position con Aq virtue of the two indoponrtert nostriis eesliy discern stereo saoll effects, 1.. they can tell whotier nis oror on is at the right or left hand, arte es ore uses nis two ears in locating the source of a sound. T For certaln nusk-I iko conpounds, forty motecules ar sufficlent to trioger a humon olfact ory response. V. A Adaptation 01 one olfactory unb lity does not significantiy reduce sensitivity to ony other dissiel lar quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to ell sint lar quelities. T By employing a alatierities aethod of conpering qualitles, one con now obtain Identity and degroes of difference without recourse to froble- vi. - Hunger lowers thresholds stight ly to some food qualltles but not for T = e now possible to Identify the intensity and quality of a certain given stimull sieply by expert examination of the electrephyslological record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons. T Electrical stimulation of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" end a "metallic" or "alkalind" quality. T e Direct electrica stimutetion of the olfactory senso has successfully accompllshed. VII. T 5 Although total enosela Is rere to humans and ageus le even rarer, there Is evidence that in analogy to color vision deficiences, sone people are Insensitive to (only certein) Qualities while having normal sensitivity to others, T Toplca anesthetics applled to the tongue shos that dl fferent quelities 1 Certaln endocrine diseese entitles nake = possible for DOnO people quite sensitively to "snell" such "odor less" substences es sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both teste and odor can be reduced to noreal by manipulation of endocrine levels. T t omenopsuse wonon at the time of ovulation find certaln odors extrenely disegreeable whilo at other timos In the menstrun cycle these sese odors
sone elements possess toste.
surface In order to be see Iled.
chemicn! senses.
IV.
sone von ds. others.
yer beon
50
of toste disappear at different rates.
they wlr Judge quite pleasant.
