Genetic Epidemiology 5:265-275 (1988)
Estimating Genetic Parameters of Survival Distributions: A Multifactorial Model
Joanne M. Meyer and Lindon J. Eaves
Department of Human Genetics, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond For a number of genetically influenced ilnesses, age of onset is correlated between relatives. in some cases, age of onset also serves as an index of an individual's inherited liabiliry 2 an illness. Typically, survival models for age of onset distri- butions do not allow for these effects. We have used the gamma distribution as the basis of - model which specifies genetic variabiliry in age of onset. Specifically, we allow the hazard frequency parameter of the gamma distribution 10 be a monotonic function of an individual inherited liability io an illness. Simulationt under various gamma models indicate that age of onset correlations may be strikingly different from correlations ia liabiliry, Maximum likelihood estimation procedures were used 1o obtain parameter estimates from simulated data sets and to determine whether it a possible to discriminate between gamma processes of different order. The results for 1,000 pairs of twins (500 monozygotic and 500 dirygotic) gave parameter estimates that were fairly accurate but that decreased in precision as the order of the gamma process increased. We discuss the effect chis may have on inferences made about age of onset. Key words: age of onset correlations. survival models, gamma distrihution
INTRODUCTION
Genetic analyses of illnesses and behaviors showing a variable age of onset require a knowledge of the cumulative probability of onset by given ages. Some approachès [Weinberg. 1915; Stromgren, 1938; Risch, 1983) derive this probability from prior age of onset distributions. Others (Elston, 1973; Heimbuch et al., 1980; Risch, 1983) estimate parameters of a cumulative age of onset distrihution from the data. When the data allow its use, the latter method ie more appealing since Reccived for publication January 11, 1988; revision accepied April 22, 1988.
specific
Address reprint request 1o Joanne Meyer, Department of Human Geneties, Box 33 Medical College of
Virginia, Richmond, VA 23298. 1988 Alan R. Liss, Inc.
