H KB2223022
Life Sciences Vol. 15, dd 1291-1300 Pr inted in the E
Pergamon Press
M BOL15M R BFO 3 PYRTNE BY KICROSOMES FRON TT ar PRECIAT AND TITAL MSTERE Irens T. Wang, Ronald R. Ra smunsen, and T. Timothy Crocker* Cancer Besaarch Inetitute, University of Californis, San Praneieco, and Depart- ment of Commanity ard Invironmental Medieine, Univeraity of California, Irvine*. (Received in final form 26 August 1974) Sumary Pretreatnest of hansters vith bento (alpyrene (BaP) grestly increased the 5 vitre netabol lae of BaP E lung alerosonns fron prognant - etar : and 3 1esa effect on the metaboli - of € E 1iver alera somoe. # profuetion of various matabolita of Rap E lans nicre- sonos  increaned to different axtenta: 3-hydrory-Ba? (3-CH-BaP wa one of the naser satabolitan the netabolic yielde of 9,10- dikgdrodilydreer-iar (9,10-101) and 7,0-diel vere incrensed more than that ef t . .5-diel. tn the ense of 1iver mierosomes, only the yielde of $,10-diol and 7,8-diol ware incransad ovar the control levels, The presence of eyclohexene oxide in the incuba tion mir- tures decressed the production of the diole. Basal-level enryme aetfvit de in placental, fetal 1iver, and fetal ekin aicresomar in mataholizine MP were very 1o, Pretreatmant of pregnant hana ters wth : indaced Rar-peteholigine entymes 5 fotal iere 2-3 fold. Benso(alprrene (aP 1e . carcineser and anviransnmental cont Ant that 4 found in coal tar, nineral o11, car exhaut, totacco smoke, - kad foode, ete. à In vitro staties ahmnend that netatolie activation et Bar 1s required for ita iataractio wh proteina and annlale acide (2,3). Parller studies wh rat liver preparations 3 and hanatar liver micros (6,7) shoved that Bar le meta elised minly 8 phenolie and dihydrodihydeown fatell derivatives, and s quinones whirh are enzyrutie oE air oxidation producte of enstable phenolie netabolites Is'D) as vall as aone unidentified more polar matabolites, The meta olien ef MaP has generally been neasured I the production ef 1-hydrexy Par (3-OH-nari t Je aften I of the major metalo: tes in vitro t1. 3-01- nap ie tesic to aitured calle (9). ht it shovt ver l1ttle interaction vi th DINA in vitro (6) and haa not been shon to be carcineeenic. O the ather hand, K-regton epowides ef relat: polyeyelie aronatic hptrocartens IPAI
to cell-
129:
