page 43
INQUIRER Philadelphia, Pa. March 27, 1964
INQUIRER Philadelphia, Pa. March 26, 1964
2 Cancer Types Rare Nuns, Study Shows PALM BEACH SHORES, € March 26.-An extenaive Duns bas shed light on some stubborn problems of medical research. it was reported LIVE 6 YEARS LONGER A survey, conducted with that the average age of death "generous collaboration" of : 115 years, about six years authorities, has enlisted the cooperation of more thanl en la general. 116,000 nuns a R religioas Dr. Nix said the nuns "get Some preliminary results numbers as other women, but based o0 pilot stadies and a por. they seem to get them 10 years tion of the main survey in C96I later than the average woman." -were revealed here at : There was a strikingly low sixth annual American Cancer incidence of cervical cancer, Society Science Writers Semi- which Dr. Nix attributed o
Higher Death Rate
In
Males Is
Bv GARY BROOTEN Of The Inquirer Staff
Among
sutvey of causes of death Thursday. the chureh communities.
Attributed to
among America's Roman Catholle à most striking finding: higher than for American wom- beart attacks la about the same
Heavy By GARY of The Inquirer PALM BEACH
Smoking BROOTEN of all deaths for that ase group March 25-A SHORES. Fla.. But by comparing the 69,000 ex statistician said Wednesday that cess smokers' deaths with the much of tbe long accepted dif 153.700 excess death. among all ference in death rates between men, the statisticians came o sexes may be attributable to the conclusion that $4.3 percent differences in cigaret smoking. of these excess dcaths among not fundamental sex differences. males could be blamed on L. Levin, evidence now indi- Previously, th e differences cates that cigarets can be (which are usually expressed blamed for "a of minimum" 100.000 excess as a longer life expectaney for d e aths le women) had America every year. been attributed Excess deaths can be loosely to biological and other defined loosely as early deaths. In differences between men and sioking studies. they are calcu- women. lated by "It la important to remember comparing deaths that other factors are among smokers at each at work, level with deaths age Dr. Levin said. expected from general life expectancy tables. He said lte faet thal the Dr. Levin. chiel of epidemi- su I : n General's Advisory ology at the Roswell Park Committee Memorial report on smoking Institute in Buttalo. did not a N. Y., made his give figure for total remarks at the excess deaths due to sixth annual American Cancer xmokine Science "underscores the magnitude el Society Writers" Semi this publie health problem." par here. Levio He Dr. reported on the offered figures indicatin first 300 patients whe had gone that nearly 45 percent through the instinute's Ameri of the can Caricer higher male death rate can be Society-apohsored research attributed to smoking. project on smokers The reasoning runs like this: withdrawal clinics, but gave ou In the statistics on how had 25-to-64-year age group. many quit smoking 155,700 more men than women He said preliminary results died in Amcrica in a given indicate that an antismoking typical year (1960), compound, Lobeline. h elp In the same year, there were smokers quit. but only while 69.800 excess deaths among male they are taking it. smokers. These men presum- ably would not have year had they not been smokers. The excess deaths among smokers constituted 20 percent
Staff leading health
! significant fact in itself.
Furthermore. said Dr. Morton smokinz.
nar. DUTY TO RUMANITY i is an unusual type of en, activity for the nans, - said Dr. James T.: Nix, of New so-called Orleans, director R the study. that # can be treated effective- "But they cooperated because ly. they. a the knowledge is à Among the portant, and that a : their duty to all their sisters and to all humanity." The survey's primary target a fairly high incidence of breast is to pin down some of the à cancer. lationships of health to abstinence from alcobol ar larger series smoking and other environmen- er statistical value and have tal faciors. One of the striking findings à the pilot study was that squa- endar year 1964," Dr. Nix mous cell lung cancer-the type As the chielly caused E smoking, are being processed in the big which makes up the great computers of the Tulane Univer- majority of all lung cancer sity Biomedical cases today-occurs only rarely ter. They promise valuable in- among the nans, Dr. Nix added the that liglous communities' no-smoking rules seem a likely reason for a strikingly Jow incidence of bleeding or perforating peptic uleers. Preliminary results from the main study were based 8 575 the of 1116 deaths reported in the communities last year.
celibacy and good hygiene. Can- cer of the cervix la a common disease among American wom- = although can now be detected early enough with the smear" test "Pap so nuns, Dr. Nix found only one case-in a 93-year-old sister. On the other hand, there was celibacy, "The nuns realized that a would be of great already started collection of aun of death information for the cal- said. new data pour in, they Computing Cen- formation on the influence of e babits of living on health.
that died heavy
1005151230
