LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday March 20, 1977
ALOOK-ATTESTS
To judge 67 the torrent of protist - a DA has received. a sizable por- tion af the.. calorie-counting public Eusve 25 a logic a # law may agrees. Long accustomed to a cross seem..to. the general public, medical firg A criticism from industry pur relearchers say: that the animal a consumer activists, the FDA has been periments upon-which such regulato- bésieged by citizen demands liber- decisions are based do have a sen ate saccharin, And moves areafoot 7 sibler rationale- Pa that they do Cangress a amecd the Food and bave adirect-bearing on risk s hu. Drug Acteum me à 1 is mans - There'sbeen 2 remendous outery syalr true, researt acknowledge; 1 fom allaver the country,". # EDA thif.therats 'at thecenter ci this fur- EFT spokesman  Washington said A 8 consmed each day the saccharin Times S lence wrter ranges from anguish to anger: We've 1 a a roughly 1,000 cans of never been this busy." - t equtralent soit drinkc But they-con- 5 ban lowicalorte ces it make i a pogula The FDA: forits part; says it was tt misleading-il not dishonest focd adtive an he strength of what 'oaly doing what the law required sider to suggest as the calorie council bas;, happens when hundred rats and. - the law-specifically the Dela- that @ makes the resear E oifsprings eat additive in . clause inserted. in the. disparity H a nay Congress trilevant 6 hurans. - huge doses? pod Cand Drug Act in 1958 says that:1 People who drink one can a The Calorie Coatral Couneil, Ine. R por-flcod) additive shall be 'deemed a saccharin soft oniy drink run a not The trade da Adanta thinks arguni- tabe safe  it is found after tests a comparably lower risk of cancer. But B a af 213 million people, comes trom manufacturers a dietiry ton of the food additives.to te collective population hazard eould still add far full - cancer upto several thousand cases af hlad of dallars in thelast few days - Thé clause doesnot allaw E bal- dercancer 1 5 : du -- Moreover. scientists note, rat + led the FD. to hs iniitration lor its decision S ban evidence R cancer a hum saccharin,  the aniy nonsutritive- sweetener crently cn the matket Zven the à IA is wuling S admit thère's i basic difference between d. rats and bumas L cne B ad in the TA Street Joarmal-ohserved. S,11- M anocher : mpie of the arbitrar mature of big a 7emment $
The.Ban-on Sacchann:
9
eation whose $ 0,000 annual budgati which are appropriate forthe evaiua- food and drink, has spent thousandss hiduce satetyaf E ugm ar animal * e age newspaper ads across the coun- % aneing of ae and becefit. Nar daes itr berating th: Food and Drug Ad- #: reditire- the: ban tr be: bated on

7035437
0087432
TIMN
