-

SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.
complaints associaied with the sick building syndrome

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
questionnaire The symptoms were more common a baild-

In a cross-sectional invesaganon in one building. office buildings built over the last Os years with a validated
were measured 8 a linear analog scale questionnaire dui where the ventilation system also provided cooling and
Ar the same ame, the micre-envirosmes (environmenial humidification. irrespective of the age of the buildings. A
characserisics in the breathing zone - than area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air
samples) M characierized by measuring lempereture, quality parameten was not described Skov et à (1987) es-
relative humidiry, respirable suspended particulases, car amined indoor air quality symptoms is 14 modern I
bon dioxide. noise level, lighaing inensiry, relacive ka town halls and M older control buildings. A I of symp
midiry, and airflow. No relationship I seen between toms was related o1 "Beecing" factor (carpets, upholstery.
che degree of sympioms and age. education. or duration and horizontal surfaces) sad the "macro-molecular compo-
of employment a the building or time spent in the build- neat" of dust. They also demonstrated . relationship berween
Su on a daily basis. Suatistically, complaints were the number of hours spent photocopying and using carbonles
significandy more frequent amont smoking mon. Envi- copy paper and the level of complaints. Other studies bave
ronmental characieristics associated 1 the increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stelman et a 1985)
complaint levels in this group included decreased airflow and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) cootribute
models, there w an association between respirable a- cause of complaint la the sick building syadrome E I
pended particulases and the levels of boch mucous mem- suring symptoms and enviroamental exposures. Robertson et
brane and rysemic complaints. Sasisfaction wish the al (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif.
thermal exvironment as predicied by perception of : ferences ls the concentrations of eavironmental pollutants
R not clearty contribute a the degree of symptomu, berwecn rooms a a mechanically and . aaturally ventileted
although regression models E 1 dar complaints building. They studied the rooms with the I comp
wene not independent lf chermal parameters. Ligheing rates and used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did I
insensiry I also associated * complaints. I strate . relationship between symptoms and both ares -
sudies of che : building syndrome should examine ples measuring dust and . "macro-molecular" fraction. again

e

velociry and increased levels of respirable suuspended & to indoor air quality complaints

ticulates - dry-bulb lemperature. In regression

Several studies have antempted to identify the actual

muliple exposures simubancously and include prycho- in area samples.
2 measures a idensify prediciors f complaints in

Area samples ie buildings may not x representative of
the exposures a different points in single rooms. Fhysical
characteristica soch a windows and partitions, computens.
and shelving may infuence air currents. Radiant beat may
different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroe

indoor i
INTRODOCTION

Complaints lermed the E building syndrome" bave lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, moet 2
led to numerous investigations in the last 15 years. They are lutants resukt from point sources, o6 they will be diluted -
thought to occur primarily la newty constnacted ofice I subject a fartber removed from the soarce. A micro #
inp and, at least in the past, were thought to be due to viroement around desks and within cubicles may have very
wide variety of causes have been identifed le specific settings, ment of building la addition, all applied occupational and
inchuding inadequate tempersture and relative bumidiry 8 environmental bealth rescarch that attempts to relate dose to
trol, noise, lighting. vibration. volatile organic compound heakh effects € from the problem that : a penerally
and formaldehyde. microorganisms, eaviroamental sobecco measured a several points in time and then extrapolated to
smoke, pesticides, i entrainment of vehicie exhaast or allow development of exposure classifications oer decades
spent and contaminated air and boier I fbers released - most heakh effects are mcasured as . - resul of
from duct linings. and office machine offgnses and odors these chronic exposures Wbere the variability of sampling
A group of investigators from Great Britain (Finnepaa where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom
et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints w related pri- day to day but from hour to hour, such a stratepy mast fail
(Robertson e al. 1985) was unable to identify differences in attempted to characterise air-quality parametens in the micro
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb tempersture (temper. eevironment and set these characteristics in relation o a
ature), relative humidity. air velociry, formaldehyde, or pos level of individual complaints at . pven point in I This
itive or negative ons between several rooms in . building report presents results of crom-sectional investigation of
with narural and a building with mechanical vencilation, problem building using . sel-administered, linear analog.
where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-tem symptom
A I a Amsant Prolesor of Medicne aad ol Industrial and Eavironmental Heakh Sciences at the Universuty of Peburgh Schoot
of Medicine and Publc Heahh. P. Celegy a Director, Enviroomeetal Heahh and Salery. Camepe-Mellon Univeruty. Pirtsburgh. PA

inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1984). Nevertheless,

(Kreiss and Hodgson 1984; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986).
marily 01 mechanical ventilation. E I group of authors

results a preater than the difference a average samples, and
No investigations in à peer-reviewed literature have

3as