Mutations in signal transduction pathways

and inherited diseases
Paolo Sassone-Cors and Emiliana Borrelli

NOTICE
THISMATERIAL
PROT TéCISDHY
MAY BE
COPYRGHT LAW
TITLE 17U.S
CODE

CNRS-INSERM, Strasbourg, France

Intracellular signal transduction pathways have central roles in processes
such as growth, differentiation, neurotransmission and development. The
aberrant expression of components of various signal transduction pathways
has profound consequences for cellular functions. Recent findings indicate
that many cases of neoplasia and inherited diseases have, at their roots,
mutations in key steps of signalling pathways.
Current Opinion in Genetics and Development 1992, 2:455-458

Introduction

Troubles in the nucleus

A prerequisite for normal cell growth and differentiation
ia that 8 cell must be able to receive, interpret and re-
the extemal interface of the cell that bears many elements
required for the primary analysis of such signals. Among
these elements are membrane receptors that are able to
interact specifically with a variety of compounds. Binding
of a ligand to its receptor initiates a cascade of events that
modulate a variety of cellular functions including the con-
a given stimulus, Aberrations in this process can lead to
deregulated cell proliferation and ultimately tumourige-
nesis. Two major signal transduction pathways, which
use cyclic adenosine monophosphate (CAMP) and dia-
cylglycerol (DAG) as secondary messengers, exist (1,2,3).
Each pathway  characterized by its specific protein ki
nase, protein kinase A (PKA) and protein kinase C (PKC),
identified to date [4]. A myriad of interactions between
membrane receptors and cytoplasmic and nuclear com-
expression [5-]. Significantly, oncogenic products oc
cupy pivotal positions in all the pathways of intracellular
signalling 6- graphically demonstrating that aberrations
in transducing systems can have dramatic consequences
for cellular physiology and metabolism. The past year has
the links between defective signal transduction and dis-
ease. In this review we will focus on some key examples
that represent paradigms of this phenomenon.

In the nucleus, many transcription factors such as AP-1
[7-), NF-XB (8], CREM [-6] and SRF (10] have been iden-
and Jun for AP-1 [7-), and Rel for NF-XB (11). Yet other
oncogenic products have been found to have important
functions at the level of gene regulation, as in the cases
of Myc, Myb and ErbA (12-). Correct transcription initia-
tion relies upon cooperation between these various fac
tors [13-). In 'uopippe proteins that negatively modulate
and as such could be considered as transcriptional anti
A striking example of how inherited diseases and neo
plasia can be associated with a specific transcription fac-
tor defect concemns the disease Wilm's tumour (16-f. In
the USA, among children under 16 years of age, there
are 350 new cases of Wilms' tumour diagnosed every
tumour include aniridia, hemihypertrophy malformation
of the genitalia and neurofibromatosit (NF). The mode
etrance [17). In the past, this kind of neoplasia has been
explained by a 'two-hit' mutation model, in which the
loss of a functional gene product resulted from muta-
tion at homologous loci. Recently the wtl gene, which
is located at the Wilms' tumour locus (11p13), has been
suppressor gene and encodes a nuclear protein that in-
teracts with specific DNA promoter clements by means
of a zinc finger-containing domain (16-). The Wilms

spond appropriately to signals sent both from other cells ufied as the final targets of signal transduction pathways.
and from their environment. The plasma membrane is Some of them are constituted by oncoproteins, like Fos

trol of gene expression. By altering the spectrum of genes the regulatory activity of nuclear oncoproteins have been
expressed, the cell appropriately adapts its physiology to found to respond to various signalling systems [14-,15),

oncogenes.

respectively, although a large number of kinases has been year. Congenital abnormalities associated with Wilms'
ponents are responsible for the fine modulation of gene of inheritance is autosomal dominant with variable pen-

4 many important advances in our understanding of cloned and characterized It is postulated to be a tumour

Abbreviations

CAMP cyclic adenosine monophosphate: CF-cystic fbrosis CFTR 0 transmembrane regulator,
ma AMP-responsive elements; DAG diacylglycerot GAP -GlPase-activating protein, G-protein GTP-binding protein;
* -neurofbromatoshs PKA protein kinase A PKC -protein kinase C WT-Wilms tumour.

Current Biology Lid ISSN 0959-437X

455

2031367951