Pw ANE
Carelnagenesls vul 15 m a Pp.2721-2725, r66I
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-@-pyridyl-1-butanulne and benzo(s)pyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
.3420
chemopreventive agents
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Healh Foundation. Valhalla, NY 10595. USA
models examined to date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the All mouse because previous
The purpose of this study wvas to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression 01 by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-3-py 1)-1-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined and benzofalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated individually or in comhination. Groups of (emale A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastric adeara (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventiva activities of a number of intraperitonent injection (Ip.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis Kq NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethyleitrosamine and 7,12-dimethylbenrlolanthracene (9,10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse to evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The ig route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4,11,12). Results obtained with the A/J mouse ear be replicated because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injectlonsite and associated mortality. A dose response (PEITC) ls an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/l mouse and F344 rat (11,13) mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens This may not he realistic with respect 01 tobacco of 24 jimol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (I). The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP, are important Comparisons of NNK and RaP given individualty showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke c11. when given by the in. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either wcre complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP. The most favorahle dosing regimien of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 umol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. in addition, the model should he relatively rapid and subdoses ig, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive Therefore. we examined tumor yields obtained dosing. This reginen induced 10.524.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP given simuhtaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethyllsothlocyanate given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung prelimianry test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP thls study provlde a convenlent model for assessing the NNK was synthesized in the Amedicas Healt Foundation Organie Synthesis efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. lts purity wat established L4 HPLC as >997. BaP (93% purity), Our goal ir this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Farility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dint containing s com eil. à previously 2 play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups of 1 as sammarized in Table L At ane 7 weeks each mouse was kers: scoumea-1-04pa6cNesosuyemu)-p (NNK*) treated by intraperitoneal (ip) injection or by intragastric gavage - with and benzolalpyrene (BaP) E NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical le O.I ml cononsced oil. NNK an BaP were both carcinogen with organospeeificity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in che o.1 E used for treatment Injections and gavages were carried 5 *Abbroslations: NNK. Aimatybhnsumisel.ulbonn indiifunt dese was one -eighch ef the total. Equimolar doses of NNK aod BaP benzololpyrene: PEITC, phenethyl inothiocyanale: BITC, benayl Bar were uied in most of the combination groups, hecause the amounts of
which these 011 tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/I mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP ir combination was established in the that Bal was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
Most previous studies in the A/I mouse have examined We sought to develop a model which could be used o1
5.92 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely induction by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
BITC 1989 purity) and PEITC (93% purity) were obtained from the Aldricih Chemical Cempany (Milwaukre. wti Cottonseed ell wa purchased from Female AI mice, age > weeks wene obtained fom The Jackson Laboenrory (Bar Harbor, ME), They were housed under standard conditions in the The design ef the bioassay i illustrated la Figure 1 à mice were divided out for & consecurive werks. The total doses ae gven in Table L Each NNK and toral carcinogenie polycyelie hydrocurbons in tobaceo smoke are
Sigma Chemical Co (St Louis, MO).
Introduction to
agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
isothiocyanoie. n intruperitongal, a introgatric gavage.
o Oxford Unvensity Press
2721
