WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRIBUNE
D. 25,605
S. 49,326
WACO METEOPOLITAN AREA
MAR 9 19€9

F.C Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard- Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Comnmunications Commission from going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, It
does not scem right or logical that onc medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer W hile
newspapors, maguzines, billboards and cou ntc 1
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expected to review the FCC proposal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC said it is proposirg to refuse licenses
01 broadcasters who carry cigarette advertisict
because of evidence that smoking is injuriour to health
and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public
intercst. 'This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigger than the FCC nnd may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals to do
as they please 50 long as they doa't harm ancther.
Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that # you don't mention something. maybe it won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Hlorida Democrat, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Con-
merce Commitice, said in reference to the proposed
FCC rule that the nguncy had overstepped the bounds
of its authority He said he doubts that FCC has
any right 01 tell an advertiser what he could not
say in his ndvertisements. Rogers said Congress will
take a close Icok at the whole question of regulations
on televisinn and radio advortising content, not ouly
as to the Federat Comsmumications Commission but
in regard to Federal Trade Commission practices as
The stakes involved extend beyond the business
of broadensting. They go to the heart of whe:her
government bureaus Pinos he allowed to go beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Health."

hurt you and will disnppear.

67
SSZZICO

well.

tho limits of due proccss and thc law,