LOS ANGELES TIES Los Angoles, Californis October 20, 1954 n been proved, ale I'niversity
haieil uuda the premise that hination n a particular tvpe naneetion hetw een riea in each of F aree rategnries rett smokingand disease ha has alrrady produred a sale Might Take Six Months one it is. so all can be made Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that wav. If not, the rerearch who was in charge of the most Dr. Clarrnce Cnok Litte, compiete statistical study to chairman of the scientifc ad- date, said tbat "some AES we vianry board and scientific di should wait for more defini rector o: the Toharco Indus ing a safe cigarette. but no ies which he helieves wold nne has said just what the de. prndure some nf "the defni fnitive evidence wed be." tive eviderre" tn wetch Dr He sand te "took issue" with Hammond referred. In nie alk in the American "We wiil tackle eimultan system was more important, line of the industrv's research migh: prove surceasful in kix do not have todav Ihe months, with iuek. he said. menta! evidence that 1 - ner-
cigarette If so, scientific re- search should prove which should find one, "since ple like to smoke eigarettes. try Research Committee. de- seribrd the outlines nf siud- Tackle l'nknawas
Expert Calls Safe Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming
for
atatistician
-oad
tive evidence before develop-
NEW YORK. Ort. 19 (LP) this viewnoint.
The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. De eously mans of the unknowns arette smoking with b nt h Hammond sair the relation- in this feld of tobacen dee in lung cancer and heart dis- ship nf rigare:te smoking to relation to Euman health. he case is "overw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We scek definitive once about developing "a safe health, than the relationshin findings in ue area where cigarette a a leading statisti- to lung cancer. 1 program to much suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find .. safe cigarette" from been done. The nrogram nf meeting of the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard reongnizes that a n tifc advisory board of the There are various types nf garding the cause anri cfers Tobacco Industrv Research Inhacen, there are varinus relationship hetween rr ra Committee ansounced some of types nf fiters, and theze are mental factors, includ n . ue details nf :R seicatife re varinua teehn'ques nf curing The most important srarch program 14 hich is tobaren, he gaid, and t may set up was a dineet scudy nrneet n
Cancer
experi
Society today. At the same time the scien-
Outlines Described
mit scientifc enncliunns PA. xmnkine and lune cancer lung cancer raset a 10 medical centers I1) die : n I rd Statex and Canada,
he that some fortuatons com- eurrent LOS ANGELES EXAVINES Los Ange. les, California October 20, 1954
It will inelude numerous studles of humans, including emotional habits of amokers, se well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research wrre disclosed today. à specitio research grants, financed the will be announced later.
HEALTH STUDY NO
TOBACCO NEW YORK. Oct. 13- S A broad abe point study seek Ing kmnowledge whether eigareta or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards was announced today. It in the first announcement of big research program headed by the selentifie ad visory board of the Tobacco In. dustry Research Committee
E TIRC,
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
