BOULDER DAILY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

Areastores

stung

for cigarette sales

by MARK BABIONE
For the Delly Camera
nors.
kids.
ke,

referring to the Increased enforce-
Aueuad Tur selling tobacco to ml
tried to Anq Uhie cigarelles. The

mont.

Boulder police atung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky enoush_to
nesses this week during a crack- getcaught a sued summons-
doun on selling cigarettes 01 mi- to appoar ut court. The maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve -horis I D02S fina.
of.- the American Cancer Soclety's Tho Suna involved two tcams.
Great American Smokeout. was in- Each included a uniformed 'ofcer.
tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain clothes. omcer. and two
legal to sell tobacco producte to Fairviow High School giris, Who
Police targeted gas stations uds spy parenis signed a waiver al.
vénience, drug, grocery and dis lowing them Ta Tala parinihc.og:
"lag has mever Beer enforced, said The juvenlles woro told not to
Jopinog Policc Olficer Mary Man plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
iWe're lerting the stores know had to show Identification.

count Saumg mun, recently the eration.
thie is going to happen," ahc sald,

the cigarettes. and, if asked. they
(See BOULDER Page 3C)

Boulder police sting stores
for cigarette sales to minors
At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry
28Lh SL, one of tho giris asked when she was ikslied a slim,
the cashinr for a pack of Mart mone ous gaid she was a stur
boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- dent and couldn' atord Ine
ness, In plain clothes, po01s In court Costs. Haukeness pe0) 01
-itna-hahind her to witnese thc 9108209 her, saying she -pinos
A placard near the caih regis- the Distriet Attomney to do com
ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity ecrvice Inatrad of paying A
clerk asked to see somo identifi- The clorks, not the store own
cation. The buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the
she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don't du it to usiund
cd at the license, act it down on stores or clerks, she said. "Ali,
the counter. and sold her tho though, when you occ clerks
After they left, Haukenees Roulder Polica targeted :gr
stepped da and identified him Blorca and clerks H1 but four
celf 0s a police officer. Manka recelved summonses.
came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wock's
ITATA, I see them ask for an year. The first sting, condueted
E I think thny're going to à in September, targeted 16 stores
fuse the cale," Haukeness sald. und ST clerks received sum:

(From Page 1C)

The clerk at Colony Market,

trensaction.

Aqugnd work out a dealwith-

No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the fine,
driver's license, which shownd court coste.

cigarettes.
summons.

ing, you mnight think otherwise a2C1 -
was the:
operation
secund tobacco sale sune this

"But they never do."

monses,

094990F902