HKB2228119 LAMA RA € . 2 a
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
1
14 < N
- 2  : à I4PAKIMI / : MhnttV January 3, 1977 Dr. Willias H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Research Toundation 715 Muir Lands Vista Hay La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. fishean: and Salk.
1a : - HMNS 7
a
We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of the La Jolia resci rch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla Cancer Resezrch Founr ation and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establismnent of - focal center for research proorams on oecodevelogmenta prublems is particularly irely. It will be o! ervat potential importance for pulling togetter work by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, characteriztaion and dotermination of the sieniticance of huran oncodevelopsiontal antigens such as alphafotuprotein and carcinuvebryonic entiuens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship of increased serusa concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinonen exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and nouse model systess clearly derion- strate tne t anirals pasodico to hejatocarcinagens have elevated serum AFP concen- trations prior to developrant of slionant tmcrs. It is hoped that systertic study of human scra frum differect sources vill detering if serus AFP concun- In addition. the role of env Tumental factors such as hormonal influences on the production of oncedevelopmental gene prihat< can be further explored in different sy: tems. Such data irplies that the brod:u tion of oucedzvelopmental gene products by tunor cells is net a fixed property of a aiven tumor but is We look forrard to workino with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the important subjert of onodoveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoser exposure.
subject to envirormcstal controls.
expression. Best recards, Stewart Srll, H.D. Professor SS/nb
