100 Eest - Avanue Now York, New York 10028 Telophone (212) C28-6300
Foundation
OFFICERS ANS BOARS CF TAUSTEES David J Mahoney, Chairman President Nortan Simon, Ine. Emest L Wynder, M.D, Prasident Thomas J. Ross, % Sacretary Vice President American Airlines, ind Warner o Cosgrave. Jr. Treasurer Manaçing Partner Shieics & Company Trustees: Louis V. Aronson, il Prasident Ronson Corporation Mr. Chanes A Dana Frederie C. Dacker Presicent Dacker Communications, Ine Walter Senior E. Panner Harson Peat, Marwick, Miatchall a Ca. Georse James, M.D. Dean The iunon Sinai School of Medicine Wallias J. Levist Chairman of the Soard Levitt & Sons, inc. G. wetiam Mcote Prasicent Fieidsrest Mitis, Ine. Jesesh H. Murha Presicent Sandgran & Murha, Ine. Maxwe"t Robert R. M. Pauley Rabb Partner Stroors & Strocek & Lavan David L Davies. Eresutire Vise Presizant Javits a Javits Ganeral Counset
American Health
July 7, 1970
G. F. Todd, Esq. Tobacco Research Council Glen House, Stag Place London, S.W.1 England
Dear Mr. Todd:
In recent talks with Dr. Carl G. Baker, Director of the National Cancer Institute. the desirability of forming an international study group concerned with research into tobacco and health problems behalf of your organization to participate in this The proceedings will aim at providing the relativelv few active investigators in tobacco and health research programs with an opportunity to discuss freely current and future research prograns with the intent of reaching common objectives more quickly. The dnox5 will be composed of investigators primarily involved in tobacco and health research oriented towards producing less harmful smoking products. The partici- pants must be both willing and able to share with other investigators what is being learned from their current activities and openly discuss plans for future research in the field. It is thought that by bringing such a group of experts together to review ongoing studies and to plan future investigations jointly less harmful tobacco products will be available sooner and costly research projects will not be duplicated unneces- sarily. The meetings would be held at yearly intervals with the different organizations acting as host.
letter
invite on you
was discussed. This
is to
information and study group.
A - o
