AA
AMERICANJOURNALOF Public Health
Editorial Volume 77 Numbert AMred I MD. MPH
May 1907 Established 1911
EDITOR Less Hazardous Smoking and the Pursult of Satisfaction Cigarettes deliver drugs: al roct smoking i drug laking Scsenish wurk 2 conhrmed sic oline an . powerfully reinforcing psychoactive drug Fe the cun um ASSISTANT EDITOR er. then, ubra low yyild cigareties raise the simple issue of druk culting a 1 1. Rothman, D.PH adulteration The unsalisfactorinnss of ultra low yeld cigaremes 1 . 2 F H population hased sample smuke cigaretie in the rangey6 in mg ne Mary F. I DPP 0997 2ng € Despite the publicay ab-uut disease nsks et smuking and 4he wideppr Charpprrson belief thal ultra lor yiel cigaretles are lest he N munt . 6 w nu Dori Bloch, RN. DrPH (1989 Ihe sireel for these cigareties, les algne walk the advenised meee No doube smokers have roulinchyrried ulura lo vicld CHareue a Joy G. Dryfoes MA (19es) routinely have reiecied ihem a unsaiislying A m - Marii v ! n0 (1988 delivers abum 80 per cent dilutang ai in eech ouf Laeen by ofhusal smoking me - Frederick C Green MD 198 Thow smokers : learn the inchs of compensatory muking are mate hhe h persisi in smoking these ciparettes tha are those smuker whe de not d - vati chony compensation lechniques For in low vachd cupareuie... the smoking leu hnique are i hane the deluting air venis un hiver uh hip U D Rogers. MD MPH 11977 taking larger puffs, and at Maror and Forimann . mam w semely Amu an mune Zene I MA MB 11989) cigarelees per dar A smoker sel vriectoo 2 icompe Fermadd M Trevine, 2 MPH (1987) compensalors lcavel may cause much ef the discouraging 2 u Lau in Experimenun Erndene - Ree en expermmnns hhu more en ragin pis Joe I Wryy. MD. MPH a of whal mughi be ganndd frum the wndespread use o uls lew yeid smokers whe refuse to Qun smoking Wesi er 1 random . assugned l remair 1 thru own hrand (average 1. m uc ue . me - and 12 smuke STAFT le ch le an uhra les yneld hrand a ma H MeBesch. MD. MPH smoking the witra kaw vield group had plasma misc ne leveh thal wen unh * pe Eree . die Devecoor/aannggnng Edirer cen of the own hrand crue i 27 ne/mi) - Adrenne Auh no * per cem u0 . 11 ppm) LAlshough nue cnd in thr Meihud - Publiration Dhrecter explicaly instructed noe te bloct hher ven IK wes Pervonal , Deyne 1 Simalarly in the expenmental cumponent s ther r oon Henu Aasisten Memugm F panial compensati in smukers whe were lorved lu Marva Barnet (Beha nra blucking of hiier venut a not forbidden - this Mudy bur ma h Ediorriel Assistan discouraged by delanls of the procedure . The combuned lesson of the crus see uune survey and the forced à Prode rin E expermmnts is that d there is lo be ma aumal progress wirh she umen sivle 1 Darkene Dobes yick cigareiee #s use Areds lo be enc couraged mure forcefully One ul the thaaldyvvriiiiggg Auun smoken dun put up wih uhrra lue vach . that higher vec cigaretee and easy purchase -way Imagine choculate have 3 desen nland sue Candy might seer ire bur . wei s : and oncudoc hex . would gather dust enpecially Ihe were nue . ver George 1. Annas JD, MPH ihe more satislying I al wies ir cigarette manufacturers were requared lu make only hu 1 (guarding against more problema hlue desgnn . Ihese ureaier effec on expesures le smon 0 H 2 the de in the and M blocking ven holes and by smoking grealer numben per day And m
of customers for Ihese products even in cahth Maron and Fortmann in thit issue of the
aaur Cahfornia As mutr by only . P cnt ut
EOITORIAL BOARD leen H. Hurier PD (1987) Mary Grace Kevar. DPPH MS 19 - Patter. MD. MPH (1909) Juluce A Walle MD ( eviewed in the Philip G Weier MD (19e
m ned sonn
e hnge remair a . me tar à I 10 das . ie un Juteeed à . atiun) viira lum yicld l en uh 2 much cugareties 4 530
.
repon
Michelie Honen CONTRIBUTING EDITORS I Heaha end rhr La- I G Rosenhrante PhD - 1 Thrn - New 1 H i MD, DrPH
I T P Firke as drug contens ef medication . Mnccly regulated M whwudd be Jrv . a Jesn Connellcy. MLS smoke Many smuken would over smurk shese CugareiiE by breal ne et
5 F .9
2501662717
