LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday March 20, 1977
ALOOKAPTESSS uouree Saccharin: low ROBEFT Times s lence wrter -Des it make 5 nse 6 ban a popuia focd additive on he strength of what happens when hundred rats and. ther offpprings eat a additive in huge doses? ! Tae Calorie Contral Couneil, Inc, R Alanta thinkes not a trade argani- catimn. whose $ 0,000 annual budgat. comes trom manufacturers R. dietary food and drink, baa spent thousands cidollars in thelast few days for full. page newspaper ads across the coun- berating th: Food and Drug Ad- ministration for its decision 6 ban saccharin. - the only .nonnutriiie sweetener currently on the market Paven the Ei A is willing 6 admit thère's 1 basic difference between * rats and human a cne a ad in the TPA Street Joarnal-observed. S,I1 1 anothér P mpie 9, the art matrre of big
To judge by the torrent o D e the FDAhas received. a sizable por- tior the. calorie-counting public agrer Long accustomed 6 a cross fire or criticimm from industry and consumer activists, the FDA has been: a by. citizen demands 9 liber- ate saccharin. And moves are afcot # Cangress 9 amend. the Food. and. Drug AcLay i i 1 f : There's.been tremendous.cutery from all:aver the country," # EDA spokesman E Washington said: 4 ranges trom anguish to anger. We've. "nevrr been this busy. a he 1 :The FDA: for its part: says it was only doing what the law required. d the law-specifically the Dela- ney clause Congress inserted. in the. Food and Drug Act im 1958 says that: pp-ffccdd) additive shail be deemed to. a safe F it is found after tests 3 which are ereddooddd for the evaiua- ton of the safetyaa food additives: duce cancer E man 8 animal" hhe clause does.nct allaw fara bal Supg of risie mnd benerit. Nar dces a ddire - the- bàn tor be: based on ridnce af. cance
of bésteged
the logic ' this law may : seem. 9 the general public, medical eeearchers say. that the- animal A a periments upon-which such regulato are basèd do a sen- decisions havë sibee rationale -and that they 5 have a direct:bearing on risk 8 bu- mans. 3 SItis true, resea aep thittherats 'at theccnnee of this fur crè consumed eachr day the saccharin equivalent of Apenar "1,000 cans of : lowicaiorie soft drinkc But they-con- sidèrit not dishonest to 1-Supeoppa as the calorie couneil bas,. that Suggest. [ dirparity makes the research 8 humans. tirelevant who drink one S a Pecple T P a saccharin soit oniy drink run a ccmpprrally lower risk of cancer. But in a ai 213 million people, the population collective haza E could stil add - a 9 sever 10 cases af blad dercancer: " Moreover, scie a note rat
2
-
7035437
0087432
TIMN
