d Epidemi Vol 47 No. 10. 2e 1143-1162, 194
Copyright o 1994 Ueevier Science 3
Prinsed in Great Britain AR rights rescrved
0895-4356/94 $7.00 - 000

Pergamon

0895-03569440000814

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN SMOKERS, EX-SMOKERS,
PASSIVE SMOKERS AND NON-SMOKERS
LISON THORNTON, PETER Lue* and JOIN FRY
P N Le Statistics and Computing Ltd, 17 Ceder Road, Sutton, Surrey SM2 SDA, England
(Received in resdsed form 8 March 1994)
Abstract A extent to which current, ex and passive smoking are associated with
other risk factors, and the polential for confounding arising from these associations, was
studied using a representative sample of 9003 British adults. The distribution of 33
lifestyle (actors generally considered associated with adverse health were compared in
current smokers, ex-smokers, never smokers living with - smoker ("passive smokers")
and other never smokers. or the 33 rick factors 27 showed a significantly higher
prevalence in heavy smokers than im never smokers and only two showed * lower
prevalence. For many risk factors, prevalence increased with amount smoked, decreased
with time of smoking cessation and was increased in passive smokers. The possible
magnitude of bias from confounding by the risk factors is estimated, It is concluded that
confounding by multiple risk factors may be an important issue in smoking studies
where weak associations are obscrved. This applies particularly to studies investigating
the possible association of passive smoking with various heakth effects.
Smoking Passive smoking Confounding Bias

INTRODUCTION

gists normally do attempt to take account of

Numerous epidemiological studies have investi- such differences where relevant to the endpoint
gatod the relationship of current smoking, past studied and thus try to minimize bias due o1
smoking and exposure 9 environmental confounding. Differences between non-smokers
tobacco smoke ("passive smoking") to mor- exposed and not exposed to environmental
tality and morbidity from a variety of diseases tobacco smoke are less well studied, though
11) Bocause smokers and passive smokers are recent reports [4, 5] have pointed to a possible
not a random selection of the population, such confounding of the lung cancer relationship by
theoretical possibility that observed differences A study of the literature over many years by
between the groups studied may arise, at least in one of us (PL) has led to a number of pro-
part, due 9 differences in exposure from ocher visional conclusions being reached. Firstly,
risk factors and not wholly to effects of smoking smokers tend to have unhealchier lifestyles than
or of environmental tobacco smoke exposure. non-smokers in a number of respocts, so that
Many differences between smokers and non- they would be expected to have higher rates of
smokers, such as in alcohol consumption [2] and many discases even in the absence of any effect
social class (3), are well known and epidemiolo- of smoking. Secondly, for many of these lifestyle

studies have always to take into account the diet.

factors passive smokers are also somewhat
worse off than non-smokers unexposed to

"Auchor fer correspondence

114