LOS ANGELE TI-ES Los Angeles, California October 20, 1954 been proved. lale L'niversity
hasei uudn the premise that hination n' a partirular tvpe nect for hetween riea- in each nf : three Categories mokine and disesse ha: has alrcady produced a sale Might Take Six Months one it is. so all can be made Dr. a Cuyler Hammond thar way. 1 not, the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Carrnce Cook Litte. complete statistica! Apms to chairman of the scientife ar date. said tha: "some say we visnry bnard and seient fic di. should wait for more defini rector o the Toharro Indus. tive evidence before develop- try Rescarch Committee de. ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would one hae said just what the de produre some nf "the defni fniiiive evidence woud be." tive evidence tn ecch Dr He sadd he "took issue" with Hammond referred. In his 1alk 1n the American "We wiil lackle simultan system was more important, line of the industry research migh: prove surcessfal in six do not have todav the experi- months, with kuck." he said menta! evidence that : per- tobacen, he sair, and e may The moet important prncect
cigarette 16 so scientific re- search should prove which should find one, "since ple like to smoke eigarettes. seribed ihe mutlines n stud Tackle Unknewns
Expert Calls Safe Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming NEW YORK Ort. 19 ALP)
for
atatistician
-oad
this virwnoint
The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society mcetine. Dr eously mans of the unknowns arette smoking with hoth Hammond said the relation- in this feld of tobacen 1se in lung cancer and heart dis. ship of rigarette smoking to relation to human health." te case is "overw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint R public program. "We seek definitive once about developing " safe health. than the relationshin findings in ue area where cigarette." leading statisti- to lung cancer A program to much suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find " safe eigarette from been done. The program nf tie advisory board of the There are various types of gardine the caure And effrt Tobacco Industrv Research tnhacen, there are varinus relationship hetween ces rom- Cummittee ansounced some of types of fiters, and there are mental factore includine
the viewpoint of the heart the bnard Outlines Deseribed
tha: we recognizes mit scientific eonclzsions rn. smokire and lune rancer aet up was diree: tudy 2 current lung cancei case: . 10 medical centers inhhe : n L ed States and Canada,
meeting cf the American Cancer Society today. At the same time the scien-
te details nt :t seicatiee re arious terhn'gues n! curing
srarch program which in he thar
some fortuntrss com- LOs ANGELES EXAMINER los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
It will include numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokers, as well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. à specirie research grants, financed by the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY ON TOBACCO YORK. Oct. 19, - < broad sbx point study seek Ing knowledge whether eigarets or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health baz. ards wAs announced today. It l the first announcement of big research program headed by the selentifle ad. visory board of the Tobacco In dustry Research Committee
NEW
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
