Puu
Carcinogenesis vul 1 mu 13 rp2721-2725, 1924 carcinogens p4juRS0..uup4.uuu)- chemopreventive agents
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
pyridyD-1-butanone and
C342
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Heeahhh Foundarion, Valhalla, NY 10595. USA
models examined 9 date (2). BaP is a protorype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the A/ mouse because previous
The purpose of this study SEA to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of ehemopreventivve ngents agninst lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction in AJJ mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression o1 by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-3-ppyridly)-1-butanonn (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However. the combined and benzola)pyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of Cemale A/J mice Ci evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenbere were treated by either intragastrie adcaud (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of intraperitoneal injection (l.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against careinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diechylnitrosamine and7.12-dimethylbenzlalanthraccne (9,10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the AJ mouse ol evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The i.g route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than l.p. administration, (4.11,12). Results obtained with the A/l mouse can be replicated because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems. For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injection site and associated mortality A dose response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung turno induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/l mouse and F344 ral (11,13). mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not he realistic with respect o1 tobacco of 24 jumol of each) induced more lung tum ors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (I). The have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for 6 study, NNK and BaP. are important Comparisons of NNK and BaP given individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke a1. when given 4 the i.g. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP. The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 pmol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and subdoses i.g., with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we exnmined lumor yields obtained dosing. This reginen induced 10.5+4.4 lung adenomas uodn treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 19 ethytisothiocyannat,, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminury test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP. this study provlde a convenlent model for assessing the NNK was synthesized in the American Healhh Foundacion Organic Synchesis efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. Rt purity wat established by HPLC a >997 BaP (93% purity), Our goal im this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-71A dirt containing s wAC oil. as previously to play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups ef 15 as sammarized in Tahle 1. At ase 1 weeks. each mouse wa kers: 4-(methy-nitrosamino).--1 -(3-pyridyl)- l-butanone (NNK*) treaced by imraperitoneal (ip.) injection or by intragastric gavage lig) with and benzolalpyrene (BaP) (1) NNK is A potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical in 0. ml cononseed oil. NNK and BaP were both carcinogen with organospecificiity for the lung is all rodent dissolved in the 0.1 ml used for treatment Injections and gavages were carried *Abbroviations: NNX. 4-(meshyl osamino)- 1-13-pyridyly-1 -butunone, individuat dese was cce -eighch ef the Dotal Equimolar doun of NNK and a BaP benzolelpyrene: PEITC, pheneily isorhiocyanale: BITC, benzyl BaP were wsed in most of the combination groups, because the eracunts of
whlch these on) tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the
Most previous studies in the A/l mouse have examined We sought to develop a model which could be used to
that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
5.92 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (F A 0.001) and completely inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
BITC (989 purity) and PEITC (93% (hynd were abtained from the Aldrich Chemical Cempany (Milwaukee, wi. Cottonseed oll was purchased fonm Fermale A/ mice. age wecks, were obtoined furm The Jackson Laboratory daar Harbor, ME) They were housed under standard conditions in the The desiga of thr bioassay in illustrated a Figure 1. A mice were divider out for 8 consecutive weeks. The toral doses ar given in Table L Each 16 NNK and sotal carcinogenic polyayelic hydrocarbons in tohaceo smake are
Sigma Chemical Co (S: Louis, MO).
Introduction
agents against two of the carcinogen in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
isothiocyanaie, a intriperitoncal, is. introgautric gavage.
o Oxford Unvversiyy Press
2721
