WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRIBUNE D. 25,605 - 49,326 WACO METEOPOLITAN AREA MAR 9 i963
FC Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard- Juol Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission fron going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it dnes not scem right or logical that ono medium of advertising be furbidden the producer w hile newspapors, magazines, billboards and counter displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires Juno 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC said it is proposirg to refuse licenses to broadcasters who carry cigarette adverlising because of evidence that smoking is injuriour to health ànd the FCC has an obligation to protect the public intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals to do es they please so long as lhcy don't harm ancther. Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if you don't mention something. maybe it won't Congressman Paul Rogers, l-lorida Democret, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com- merce Committce, said in reference to the proposed FCC rule that the ngency had overstepped the bounds of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has any right to tell an advertiser what he could not say in his advertisements. Rogers said Congress will take a cluse Icok at the whole question of regulations on television and radio advortising content, not only as to the Federal Communications Commission but in regard to Federal Trade Comunission praclices as TTe stakes involved extend beyond the business of broadcasting. They os to the heart of whe:her government burcaus should he allowed to go beyond
advertising.
Hazardous to Your Healt..
hurt you and will disappear.
well.
tho limits of due proccss and the law.
