DALLAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Texas April 14, 1954
Tobacco Firms New Cancer NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing Industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers.
Ask Studies growers and tobacco toonal" statements linkdng smoking Among those pajonb by the com. and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer Inatitute of the United States Gov- relationship of ernment, which said h a 1953 * cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of lung cancer for exhaustive research to estab- had not been established. Several lish the basle cause of the disease. of the institute's scientists also The tobacco industry research were cited. Others quoted were the Damon issued a booklet c0n- Runyon Fund, which called for taining previously published state- more research, and ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgeon Dr. Max Chicago Cutler, who itiès doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons may by olher cancer experts that tobac- deveiop lung cancer partly because of smoking but that to The earliest, whitten ie 1923, said conclusion of A direct relationahdp accept there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientitic apd none that would produce turnors. hazardous. The most recent, dated last March JI. smoke in the lungs were a 16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of be done before causes of lune can- have had it long ago," cancer, the cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report The tobacco committee, formed Memorial in January te combat mounting bor, Maine. Laboratory, Bar Har- charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the up of nearly every major eigarette University of Texas School of Medi- manufacturer and organizations eine, the Metropolitan Life Inar
slded picture of the committee
Can- 3 we'd all Jackson
co causes lung cancer.
can be established.
director of the Roscoe B. Little, ance Company and British author- itles, Nearly al those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until an absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report was described by an industry spokesman as 5 "in- terim" statement, pending an- nouncement of the choice of R prominent scientist to basie cancer supervise research to be fi- nanced by the industry. That scien. tist will decide how the industry's cancer-research money is to be spent. No date has been set for his selection. At the last count, the committee said, there were more than 850 cancer research grants in the United States alone, which "any one nf might produce evidence to unlock the secrets of lung cancer,
01
