NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A campaign to woo Dade County teenagers away from smoking la under way bere as part of . nation-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groupe, the society hopes to persuade a large pro- portion of the nation's young people that amoking may Jead Key HrApon In the : m palgn, le nim strip detalling thr a against tobacen, It has already I shews le s enth graders In 13 schonls o educational televiaion, and wIl 1 brnadcant tn minth Kradn acience students la the The seventh-grade program, directed by teacher Bill Evans, inchuded a panel discussion in which students directed ques. tiona at Dr. Francis N. Cooke, representing the society. . "Teachers I have talked to agree that although smoking in not A serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu. dents are approaching the age when the problem will be faced," Evane said: Mata value a a nimstrips E * glvee studente loglcal argument with whleh ithey renld refune te - . . when neeuraged by arrele et friende," 1 edded. The him strip la alsc being ahiwnn "live lo senior a - schoola in the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October 9, 1960
Education Cuts Youth
a
Habits
Fag a
American eigaret spoking can be reduced 2 k cent through teenage education program . * high schools. These statistics vere presenled Saturday b Walter G. I director of publie education for the American Cancer Society, here lor the Florida Division. ACS, annual meeting I ssid the f mooe program : direeted al leenagers as . meana fer I eancer becsme e the soclety's esavietion that smoking r . cause ol fatal lung 2 proepects of reducing cigaret mookigg b one-fifth were pbin S pilot program conducted with 17.000 high achool students . Purtland Ore, - 1 thee dis d Sbndents I parents 1 wee modt lukely l 1. Smoking increased is the successive high school grades. Among boys participhting in the Oregon murvey. 141 & eent emoked a1 freshmen. 15.2 a cent as sopbemores, 31.1 per eent an juniars, 1 3 a i A correspond ing figures for girt stodenta were 4 per cent, 10.6 per cent, 1 or Ihe students. 258 per cent of the boys mmoknd regularty at lenst ence - ! u d 116 per cent ol the girte 4. Education programs againat smoking reduced the mumber ol new umokers argong boys from u per cent le 1.7 & cent. and beginning sirl mooer from 1. te 1. PROGRAM EFFECTIVE Jamer mid Che figures projected ever . four-year peried indicaled 2 20 per eent d high sehool I could r deterred froro smoking through the ACS educational progrmm A study, x snid, revealed that the 1 affactive approach war 5 showing the leng term elfect a moting. leaving the decision l the - + a Least ellective, he related, - the simpl instruction not i 2 part a E enti-mokdngg education progran,, 3 ACS has devised a Aim strip ihuntriting allecta a e habit for rcreening un 1 school clasarocins.
8 cancer.
at 2 3 Mar Hotel can clomre
spring.
.
- a egaret pabit
a k cent and a per rent.
- TIE NETIN 20/0022686
