SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H.
ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

P. Collopy, M.E., C.L.H.

et al. (1987) investigared the frequency of complaints in 43
questionnaire The symptoms were more commoa .B build.

In a cross-sectional invesnganion in one building. office buildings built aver the last 50 years with a validased
were measured on e linear analog scale questionnaire. du where the ventilation system aboo provided cooling and
Ar the same time, the micro-environment (environmental humidification. irreppective of the *be of the I A
characseristics in the breaching rone rather chan area direct relationship between the level of complaimss and air
samples) a characserized by measuring temperenure, quality parameten : not described. Skov et al. (1987) ex-
relacive humidiry, respirable suspended perticulases, car. amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 moder I
bon dioride, noise level, lighaing insensiry, relacive hur lowm halbs and 1 older control buildings A level of symp
midiry, and airflow. No relarionship - seen berween tom was related to - "feecing" factor (carpets, upholserry.
the degree of sympioms and age, educarion. or duration and horizontal surfaces) cad the "macro-molecular compo
of employmens at the building or aime spent in the budld. nent" of dust. They also demonstrated - relationship berween
Su on . daily basis. Staristically, complaines were the pumber of houn spent photocopying and using carbonles
significantly more frequent among Bupoour men. Envi- copy paper and the level of complaints. Other srudies bave
ronmenial characteristics associased wich the increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et a 1985)
complaint levels in this group included decreased airflow and prychodynamic factor (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute
models, chere was an association berween respirable a cause of complaints 9e the sick building syndrome by -
pended particulases and the levels of boch mucous mom suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et
brane and syssemic complaints. Sarisfaction wish the E (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif.
I environment as predicted by perception of dreft ferences .s the concentrations of enviroamental pollutant
did * clearty contribute a che degree of sympsoms, berween rooms in . mechanically and a naturally veutilete
mudies of the sick building syndrome I examine ples measuring dust and . "macro-molccular" fraction.

complaints associared with the "sick building syndrome

velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended i to indoor air quality complaints.

riculases and dry-bulb semperanure. In negression
alchough regression models R suggest t comy
were noc independent of chermal paramesers.
insensiry a also associated 1 complaints.. A
L measures to idensify predictors of complaints in

Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
building. They studied the rooms with the I compl
rates and used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did demor
strate relationship between symptoms and boch
Area samples is buildings may not x representative o
the exposures in different points in single rooms. Physical
characteristics 1 a windows and partitions, computers.
and shetving may infuence air currents. Radian heat ma
different exposure characteristics thap the macro-enviroe

ares -

- exposures simulrancouslyy and include prycho in E samples.

indoor -
INTRODICCION

Complaints termed the i building syndrome" bave lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, mont a
led to pumerous investigations in the last i5 year.. A are hutants resuh from point sources, 1o they will x diluted a
thought oi occur primarity a newty constructed odice baild- subject an farther removed from the source. A micro 1
inps and, at least 9 the past, were thought to be R to vironment around desks and within cubicles may heve very
wide variety of causes have been identibed .s specific settings, meat of a building. In addition. all applied occupational and
inctuding inadequate semperature and relative bumidiry coo- environmental health rescarch 2 attempe to relate dose o
trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile orpanic compounds beakt effects sufiers from the problem that doee * penerally
and formaldehyde. microorganisms, environmental sobecco measured e several points in time and then extrapolated l
smoke, pesticides, a entrainment of vehicie exhaor or allow developmen of exposure classifications a decades
spent and contaminated air and boiler fumes. fbers released while most heakb effects are measured a . single resuk of
from duct linings. and - machine offgases E odors these chronic exposures Where the variabiliry of sam
A group of investigators from Great Britain (Finnepan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom
et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to hour. uuhh strategy most fail.
(Robertson et al. 1985) was unable to identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-qualiry parameten in the micro
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (semper eavironment and set these characteristics in relation o the
ature). relative humidity. air velocity, formaldebyde. or poe- level of individual complaints at . pven point in I This
rtive or nepative ions between several rooms in . building report presents resules of cros-sectiinnll investigation of .
with natural and - building with mechanical ventilacion, problem building using . setf-ddmiiistered. tinear analog.
where both set of room had high levels of complaints Burge setf-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
1 I . Amasum Prolesorr of Medicine und ol Induscrial and Emironmental Heahh Scences at the Univeruty of *
of Medicine and Publc Heahh. 'd f a Direcior. Environmental Heahh and Salery. Camepie-Mellonn Univeruty. Pietsburgh :

inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem,,

(Kreiss and Hodpson 1984; Hodgson and Kreiss 1986).
marily to mechanical ventilation A same proup of author

results is greater than the difference l average samples,
No investigations in the peer-reviewed literature have

Schoot

A