EXPERIMENTAL PARASITOLOGY 70, 111-113 (1990)

MINIREVIEW

Viruses of Protozoan Parasites
JEAN L. PATTERSON

Division of Infectious Diseases. Children's Hospital and Department of Microbiology and Molecular
Generics. Harvard Medical School. Boston. Massachusetts 02115, U.S.A.
PATTERSON, J. L. 1990. Viruses of protozoan parasites Experimental Parasitology 70,
The study of bacteriophages and viruses has pro- rus-like particles does not conciusively prove that a
vided important leads in our understanding of the con- virus has been discovered. It is also important to con-
trol of gene expression, RNA processing, and transla- sider the question: How does one isolate a lytic agent
tion. The eariy work with bacteriophages enormously from an infecting microorganism? Presumably, in the
assisted in the development of modern molecular bac- in vitro culturing of infectious organisms, those that
teriology Since they are by definition obligate -ered survive are resistant to cocultivating lytic agents.
sites of the eucaryotic cell, viruses have been essential Therefore one can only isolate noniytically infected or
in helping to elucidate eucaryotic gene regulation. persistently infected organisms. It appears that all vi-
They must conform to all the prerequisites that allow ral systems of protozoan parasites, studied to date,
for gene expression within a host and, not surprisingly, have accomplished just this. There have been several
many of the models underlying present concepts of reports of the molecuiar characterization of viruses in
eucaryotic gene regulation are based on experiments parasitic protozoa and these characterizations are crit-
originally done with animal viruses. For example. ical in establishing the existence of a viral system.
RNA splicing was first discovered .s adenovirus (Ber- Wang and Wang (1986a) reported the presence of a
get et al. 1977) and ironically much of our knowledge double-stranded (ds) RNA virus in Giardia lamblia. In
of the function 5 translation of the mRNA cap struc- general, all of the work on the nature of RNA viruses
ture is based on work with poliovirus, a virus which in protozoans has been derived from vira) molecules
does not have cap (see Ehrenfeld 1982). Furthermore, isolated from the infected parasite. The double-
studies with vesicular stomatitis virus (ASA bave stranded RNA virus .s G. lamblia is no exception. An
given interesting insights into mRNA ribonucleopro- associated nucleic acid found in the infected parasite
tein complexes (Adam et al. 1986). The understanding appeared to he approximately 7 kb. Susceptibility of
of some DNA virus' ' tissue tropism has delineated the ribonucleases in low a and insensitivity in high salt
molecular basis of tissue specific gene expression. supported the hypothesis that it was double-stranded.
factors and enhancers (Freund et al. 1987; Gloss et al. could be found associated with the nuclear fraction.
1987). The successful use of viruses as molecular tools Electron micrographs sbowed that the virus had an
and models has been facilitated by their small genome estimated size of 33 am. The RNA could be labeled
size and small number of genes, a well as by the un- with "P-labeied pCp at the 3 end with T4 RNA ligase
usual abundance of viral transcripts and proteins S' and used as a probe and therefore was not circular.
infected cells. These considerations highlight the po- There was a major protein band estimated at a molec-
tential value of viruses for the study of parasitic or- ular weight of 66,000 Da. 2 an added advantage, the
ganisms. Indeed. the lag is our understanding of gene virus could be used to infect other strains of Giardia
Early experiments in the quest for viruses of para- parasitic protozoan, Trichomonas vaginalis (Wang
examination (Molyneux 1974; Molyneux and linear double-stranded structure of 1.5 um in length,
Heywood 1984; Croft and Molyneux 1979). Although with no apparent hairpins or loops. Later this double-
this method is common, the end result is frequently stranded RNA was found to be between 5 and 6 kb and
frustration. More importantly, the appearance of vi- associated with a virus (Wang and Wang 1986b). This

111-113. e 1990 Academie Press, Ine

function tissue
of

Subcellular fractionation indicated that the dsRNA

such a the

specific transcription

regulation of parasites may be due, in large part, to the (Wang and Wang 1986a).

lack of defined viral systems.
to
a
sites great
scopic

A double-stranded RNA was identified in another

extent depended on electron micro- and Wang 1985). EM

of the RNA indicated a

analysis

111

0014-4894/90 $3.00
Copynight o 1990 b Acado Press, Lac.
AD righes a reproduction n any form rescrved

50596949