Mutations in signal transduction pathways
and inherited diseases Paolo Sassone-Corsi and Emiliana Borrelli
MATERIAL MAY BE BYCOPYRIGHT LAW TILLETUS CODF
CNRS-INSERM, Strasbourg, France
Intracellular signal transduction pathways have central roles in processes such as growth, differentiation, neurotransmission and development. The aberrant expression of components of various signal transduction pathways has profound consequences for cellular functions Recent findings indicate that many cases of neoplasia and inherited diseases have, at their roots, mutations in key steps of signalling pathways. Current Opinion in Genetics and Development 1992, 2:455-458
Introduction
Troubles in the nucleus
A prerequisite for normal cell growth and differentiation is that 8 cell must be able 9 receive, interpret and re- the extemal interface of the cell that bears many elements these elements are membrane receptors that are able to interact specifically with a variety of compounds. Binding of a ligand to its receptor initiates a cascade of events that trol of gene expression. By altering the spectrum of genes expressed, the cell appropriately adapts its physiology to a given stimulus. Aberrations in this process can lead to deregulated cell proliferation and ultimately tumourige use cyclic adenosine monophosphate (CAMP) and dia- cylgyycerol (DAG) as secondary messengers, exist (1,2.3). nase, protein kinase A (PKA) and protein kinase C(PKC), respectively, although 3 large number of kinases has been identified o1 date [4). A myriad of interactions between expression [5-). Significantly, oncogenic products oC kdno pivotal positions in all the pathways of intracellular signalling (6*), graphically demonstrating that aberrations & many important advances in our understanding of the links between defective signal transduction and dis thar represent paradigms of this phenomenon.
In the nucleus. many transcription factors such as AP-1 (7*), NF-xB (8), CREM (-6) and SRF (10] have been iden- and Jun for AP-1 [7-), and Rel for NF-xB (11). Yet ocher functions at the level of gene regulation, as in the cases of Myc, Myb and ErbA (12-). Correct transcription initia- tion relies upon cooperation between these various fac the regulatory activity of nuclear oncoproteins have been found to respond OI various signalling systems (14*,15), and as such could be considered as transcriptional anti plasia can be associated wich a specific transcription fac- tor defect concemn the disease Wilm's tumour (16-J. In are 350 new cases of wilms tumour diagnosed every year. Congenital abnormalities associated with wilms tumour include aniridia, hemihypertrophy malformation etrance [17). In the past, this kind of neoplasia has been explained by a rrwo-hit mutation model, in which the loss of a functional gene product resulted from muta- cloned and characterized. It is postulated to be 2 tumour suppressor gene and encodes a nuclear protein that in- of a zinc finger-containing domain (16-). The wilms
spond appropriately O) signals sent both from other cells tifed as the final targets of signal transduction pathways. and from their environment. The plasma membrane is Some of them are constituted by oncoproteins, like Fos required for the primary analysis of such signals. Among oncogenic products have been found to have important modulate a variety of cellular functions including the con- tors (13-). In addition, proteins thar negatively modulate
oncogenes
nesis. Two major signal transduction pathways, which A striking example of how inherited diseases and neo- Each pathway is characterized by its specific protein ki- the USA, among children under 16 years of age, there membrane receptors and cytoplasmic and nuclear com- of the genitalia and neurobbromatooii (NF). The mode ponents are responsible for the fine modulation of gene of inheritance is autosomal dominant with variable pen in transducing systems can have dramatic consequences tion at homologous loci. Recently the wtl gene, which for cellular physiology and metabolism The past year has is located at the Wilms tumour locus (11p13), has been ease. In this review we will focus on some key examples teracts with specific DNA promoter clements by means
Abbreviations
CAMP- cyclic adenosine monophosphate; CF-cystic fibrosis: CFTR-FFF transmembrane regulator, CRF CAMP-responsive elements: DAG- -diaylglyceroo; CAF-CPPPase-attivttnn protein, G-protein CTP-binding protein; neuroofibommttoiss, PKA- protein kinase A; PKC- protein kinase C WT-Wiims tumour.
Current Biology Ltd ISSN 0959-437X
455
2031367951
