True-Taise Questlons S the Chenistry and Psychophys lology of Odor and Flevor 1. H F Sone modern workers suggest that accurate mnhaurement of vibrationa! frequency (in the far infrared, for example) of an unknown odocant will permit prediction of its quailty and intenslty. T . No lenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone hos eny odor; Instead they react with the nucose fonning new products which are smelled; buf Sone odorants have steric or vibrational propertles which force the concluslon that they are odor less whon they are not I1. h F Present evldence strongly suggests thet different parts of the olfactory receptor ares, Ilke the retina ln the eye, are que ilty-spocffic. TF Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor T No one yet has . ure clue as to the criticol relation between the molecule 000 the receptor which pernits en odor perception, T The greater the secretion rate of mucous or sallve, the higher their pH, and both phi and tomperature influence the quallty of sensation in the 11 H F The idenl instrumental detector would respond to odors in the sane quantitative range an doen an animal or human sub ject. 1 . Such an Ideat detector has not been developed. > - Ihman observors with head In fixed position can by virtue of the two Indopondent nostrils easliy discern stereo suall effects. 1.e. they can tell whotier hu edorent ls ht the right or left hand, much as one uses his tue cars in locating the source of sound. TF For certaln musk-like compounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger - humon olfactory response. Adaptation oi one olfactory qunlity does not significantly reduce sensitivity to any other dlssimilar quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all sinllor quelities. I By enploying simi larities nethod of compering qualitles, one can now obtain identity nnd degroes of difference without recourse 9 troull- a T Hunger lowers thresholds slightly to some food quailtios but not for TF ir is now possible to identify the intensity and quality of certain given stimull simply by expert examination of the electrophysiologgce: record taken from approprlate odoo or taste neurons TF Electrical stimulation of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and A "metallic" or "alkalind" quality. H F Direct electricol stimulatlon of the olfactory se . han successfully accompilshed. Although total anosela is rare ln humans and egeusia even rarer, there ls evidence that In analogy to color vision deflciences, some are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while having norma sensitivity to others. Toplcal anesthetics applled to the tongue . hr nu that different que Ities - Certain endocri ine dlsense entitles nake It possible for soce people quite sensitively to "smell" such "odor less" substances es sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both teste and odor can be reduced to noccal by eanipulation of endocrine levels. - Prenenopausn wonen at the lime of ovulation find certain odors disegreeable whlle at other rimes In the menstrunl cycle these 1 de or
sone elements possess taste.
surface ln order to be see led.
chenicn! senses.
v.
sone words. others.
yer beon people
VII.
50297
of taste disappear at different rates.
they will Judge quire pleasant.
