C
saluls
JAT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira New York Timer Server
WAn bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars - made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even in recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22
TAIPEI I The Mariboro cow. dn sales of $119 million. le 1986, trade talks between the United New Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just S4 4 million. For- Staics und Taiwan. Wang Chicn. pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghng from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOw hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis town. His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered R ing in Japan arc more liberal. Com- guitar-playing jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted give out Iree cigarettes and gifts," B aggressive campaign. Television This frenetic. fast-growing DA- cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lrwed in the United States in 1971. tioe of nearly 20 million pcople ly because both Tawwan and Japan school students - 12, lt years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-sianding restrictions. are now smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry - label that, year and for the first time, - According to the Brown & Wil rette companics promote cigareties roughly translated, says, "For the rubstantial number of chem were liamsoo Tobacco Corp.. exporta of like that? Ic's O.K. to have them sake of health, don't smoke Loo made .9 America, nol Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" - warning much milder Too introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy . 915, billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $i uomg in new sales. the United Siates. But those people mandaied 5 the United Siates.
and dod-pus-mom stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
panies can advertise on TY after
oul this city, next to posters 2 - peroent. er of Winston cigarettes.
"They go o1 amusement places 6 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting
for most of the growth in American he said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-
ln Japan, which has population' million of 120 and where people uhe past year. The market share 25 American cigarettes increased to ers vigorously deny 10 from 3 percent ls 1986, and the promoting
wacturers have essentially intro cigarette advertising o1 the tbe American companies of entic ing teen-agers o) unke dn mooiigg, operation that had monopolized percent by 1992. tised, altbough it does now. prenrure from Washingion. In the alcohol. year since stiff restrictions on for. 8 cigarettes were dropped. o American cigarettes UT Taiwan for peadod growth American man- sfacturens at time when sales in export way and tbe number ol anti-smoking laws is way dn
are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe 'ooppanies say Amencan 'ur - humann being, you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan nos K much beczuse of the adver. tising a because they are of better quality and Laste beiter. American are with the way are cigaretier mmde of they and bacco and have less uar than Tai- products say wancse cigarettes whicb are not
duced
ialand, and that has created a furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes year. that. Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled
American
cigarette manufactur- there in any- Tbey are not allowed to advertise E small slores where cigarettes are a well a through promo- also 120 ade - year in place drculation maga- acl- dom cxooods 200,000. people Taiwan im-
blended to-
charge the American companies more than percent last year, thing Suoi their The goveramect-adminisserd dicts that il could grow lo 15 8. 20 sales pitch.
boty deny.
Department of Agriculture ood ihry have no pians to change their bleaded. American pressure to open their have they pusbed to do 1o, they say. said Jaw Shau-kong L legislator. tions. Cigarette uampouyttva may courage its people to smoke, why zines, cach ol whoec causc of American ada. They hire retuo accounted for lcas than 1 per young attractive plo-r0o-- girla oent of tbe market wearing short skirts to pive "e cig. posed strict quotas on forcipn and then it becomes a habit. It's cigaretter and imposed stif tariffs.
the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials E tbey resent loe television or ln newapapers. Nor The government agreed to allow markets le products that éndanger They can advertise only through others into tbe business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and posien hung near cigarette racks or
sales € really burts our feelings, kold,
have soared, generating much- N... tbe Uniled Suses docs not en-
to Taiwan? Younger
the United States are down E females are smoking - loi 8 Bdore last year, forcign ciga According to the U.S. Depart- arettes free 9 nightclube. k's 3 cigarettes, banced import at € mbett ol Agriculture, people in Tal- difficult lor Sunok boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudees licenued to sell
immoral.
2 - rerult, imported aigaretie coet
04449000SZ
