INVILHOTLLS FILTER SNIM 2D |Another
New York Times March 1, 1968 Page 34
Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs to Use It By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pall Mall of Canada, "pr the second-larg. est cigarette sompany in that country, contracted yesterday with the Strickman Funddaton 01 pay a penny a pack royalty for use of the filter invented by Robert L. Strickman. The company, which is 30 per cent British-owned, but Canadian-managed, sells 12 bil- lion cigarettes a year, very few of thcm in the United States. The agreement was the second 5 two days with the founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Cornpany of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company. with annual salcs of more Uian 18 billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. Strickman, was surrendering its rights to the filter to the foundetion. The university said l had "made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering a highly con- troversial end competitive com- mercial field." Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financlal the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to it last summer by Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set dn on Wednesday byl the New Jersey chemist as a charitable institution "to ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has, received $200,000 in advance royalties. According 2 Robert > Katz, the unsataried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts cauld eventually bring E about $5 million a yearin royalties. Mr.. 4 Jawyer who. ls secretary Seagram's Distil- Katz leries, said that Rothman's Pall nfall of Canada ked been test- ing the. Strickman filtor since last August. Wilmat Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman's, said of the device: "We are sctistied that nothing exists gives comparcile Jiltration without Aps1DApE affecting the flavor of the cigarette. L takes out 'more suspeci e'e ments withia the cuniext of ac- ceptable (lavor. we fcel that as clgarette should 5 -
Claims Are Disputed The claim that the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ing cigarette flavor has bcen a subject of controversy. Among the most outspoken critics of the filter has been F Ecnator Warren G. Magnuson No Washington, who has con- tended that its claims have been aceally exaggerated. NnoyL many governmental and privale health reports byl experts have called cigarette tar and nicotine health hazards, Columbia University, in a re- port on the Shickman filter made publiç un Wednesday, avoided making 2 conclu- So far no United Shates ciga- rrtte companies are beliaved to be close to a contract for the filter. Experts say that dones- tic companies need not fèar competion in this country from the Canadien cigarettes because lof a 15-cent import duty on each package. Pall Mall cigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana- dian concern.
sions.
stake in
rescarch.
a de which
1002617799
ny we
