Vol, 285 No. 29
EDITORIALS
1917
The New England Journal of Medicine Official Organ of The Mossachusetts Medical Society Founded le 1812 as New the ESGLAND JOuRNAL or MEDICINE AND SURGERY and continued le 1828 as Vol. of the BoSTON MEDICAL AND SURCICAL JOURNAL PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE COMMITEEE ON PUSLICATIONS or THE MASSACHUSEFTS MEDICAL SoCIErY Claude E Welch, M.D. Chninman Joseph Garland, M.D., EDITOR EMERITUS Franz J. ingelfinger, M.D., EDITOR ASSOCIATE EDtroas George S. Richardson. M.D., Boos REVIEWS Robert O'Leary, ASSISTANT EpITOR EDITORIAL BOARD
ACTION ON ASBESTOS ASBESTos workers are unintentional victims of industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary fibrosis, pleural culcification, mesotheliomas and lung cancer. Asbestos exposure is now involving not only air but also wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex- posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or ferruginous bodies may be, there la no doubt that electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers ease in the general population at this time, the presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing. Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by most chemical and physical means and can fooa freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods. Asbestos discases have a long latent sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must made now, On the basis of "reasonable probabili- ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition of dose-response relations. These thoughts are reinforced by the work of new ship construction include better than usual tions. A second study of Murphy et al. reports two cases of pleural disease (one mesothelioma) in workers who sanded asbestos foor tiles. Since the
widespread, drinking water,
Alexander Marble. M. D. Samuel Proger, M.D.
Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al- Leroy D. Vandam. M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-
20 period,
Jane : Desforges, M.D. Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.
Ronald A. Malt, M.D.
Arnold L. Smith, M.D. years or more. We therefore believe that more
be
Robert E. Johnson, M.D. Norman G. Levinsky, M.D. Francis D. Moore, M.D. Charies A. Sanders, M.D. Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D. Ronald A. Arky an Dana L. Farnsworth, M.D.
John w Litefield M.D, Murphy and associates in this issue of the Journal Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, 6 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in John R. David, M.D. exposure data and Indicate a high incidence of as- Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. pestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-
Louis Weinstein, M.D. Howard Bleich, M.D.
Isadore N, Rosenberg, M.D. Milion C. Paige, 4 BUSINESS MANAGER
AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au- unl should consult "Information for Authors, This material thors simulated the working conditions and found may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour- concentrations of 1.3 fbers per milliliter 'of room nel, or it may be obtained from the Jeumaal office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of space, and all material, including figures, should be submit- used threshold limit values. A fber per milliliter of CASE REPORTS, usually published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 10 Abers every gence" section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled
manuscript, including references, should be typed double reference to articles reporting closely related cases. A very fbers remains in the short case report or description of a technie submicted as a "BRIE RECORDING" should be limited to 500 words. MATERLAL printed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period. cine is covered by copyright. The Journal does not hold issll responsible for statements made 9 any contributor. NOTICES should be received not later than noon on Mon- day, 24 days before date of publication. cles published. Requests should be sent to the author. imply endorsement by the Journal, Arbor, Michigan 48106. chusetts 02115.
currently figures suggest
ted in duplicate.
room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per an alarming number will still accumulate over a -O A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation- al Academy of Sciences panel has called for control of asbestos emissions at the source and for protec- The report also calls for further rescarch on the fierrs such data are urgently needed F
these lung,
that
a
REPRINTS: The Jourmal does not stock reprints of the art- tion of those who are exposed in their occupations. ALTHOLOH al. advertising material accepted is expected to biologic effects and the physica! characteristics of SUBSCRIFTION PRICES (worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates are in U.S. funds only. confidence." Although we endorse these recommen- MICROFILSE volumes available to regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for through University Microfimms, 315 N. First Street, Ann technical controls based on existing knowledge. COMMUNICATIONS shouid be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as- land Journal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects
conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance does not asbestos
on cells and tissues are important and must be con-
