496
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richard L. Nacye, MD, and Woodrow S. may var y in incidence and Somerset Counties of
Findings Dollinger, MS the men hnd ever
Coal workers pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite of multiple disorders, each of which severity from one pationt to another. In found to correlate well with quantitative. measurements of € the volume of macules and nodules. recognition of cmphysema and chronic cor miners with no roentgenographic with silica and collagen.
process but a a study of 77 miners of postmorlem anatorni dioxide)and collagen content of dust évidence of pncumoconiosis had
rank, low-volatile cont In Cambrin and rylvania Nonc of central l'ean- d ucted between 1902 und 19-35 ly the Fennsylvanin Departmeat of Miner End Mineral Industries skowed ar silica cuntent of eval Jat i low in all arenn nf Penneyina . aeldom helny greater itan $.. H owever, the mine Just coheet.ra t: in of free nilica In greater for sonie u iderground wurkets Puch aA rof la $ k or encounter alllcabeariig The 77 cascs palverin - rand. selerted B te keatdd c4lonne fhe ly anthera, whovisited ench of rvenn pirpase e -neral hospital,, and rea.l every AU- 1 protorul lnvohed a man r thmn a yeara ol nge in didd parumoconinsi,, l- twevn 19G0 anl 1:his The is tu determine if paeu- l . casen atarted with the hathh pataoin somie workers witlemt aspuristed Tir U descriptious the lungn Wh.n rre was any mention of eve lve .ment, parenchy mul nndul - Ni-e or any histury of mining. the ui nt's dlinical chart w In. evan.ited, a were evt.ce A as inrludel in the rtudy unly treupational expusare crd- mnel ln speein. minrs Lad "aail hnd rettiie mmaiin Irbyplam tin 1 - wasnht.iined . mocnninn Nu h & Drll , 22) 027050
bituminous
coal, roentgenographic categories for
pneumoconiosis were enined anthracite roal. Survey eon- roentgenog/aphic ini rhift of exposure per werk- wilh dyspnea. A munber of ern, The fiee biturinec work-
nodules, and (2) the silica (silicon pulmonary dust macules and emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspina in addition lo dust rom 107 to 4GR of Appulachian chitis and coal workers have roentgeno lur, graphie evidenee of pneu- symptoms, and physieal findings have been dificult Lo make, early stages. eepecially in lions to disability." h is the Theau diniculties prob of the current ably ari-e from the faet that roal workers' pneummeoniosis ("black ographie feature of lung") is not R single disense prores Another aim but a composite uf mnltiple disorders, and severity, dependent upon gro entgenographic gruphie aren, oxort occupat lunal a posure, and opparent individual sus ceptibility. These miutiide 4
Unfertunately. there was poor
verage coal dunt d.
which appear to be most closcly correlated pulmonaic,, ihe tnu chscrciers e.tde font of uir 11.1r..U fur paritdes per
macules
hronchiolitis:(.) erntrilubu - Jters and eledrie Inuoncivee panlobular, and paracieatiiciat : who Jrill inte separate di-epve pricesse tl rough H search uf sunly In evahuate thiir L à ruentyen- almormalities Patients Studiod and Methods frum Ivnne hania and We.t Vir- ginia, Thir:y-one h.d lew-rank nevrhy nerthern W.. Vi,,..i TI. other 46 hal alway, mim d highrr PUBLICATIONS
meconlosia, hut co relatiuns belween emphysema:: und (3) tuberrulusin and such roontgenugrephii abnormnlitics, orvasionally other di ra- precesges.
These
nppear to make ditfering rvitaibu - individual inllunnee nn the
thnt a
each of which may vary in inridehre moconiunis with disaliiiiy esirta in girts
orde indude(l1hhe primary cnal lust Patirut The patient. werr 77 un nr. informatinn
mocule; (2) silicaris, (a) chrunie bran durground miners ef hitumminuu cnal ln and uthrr dath eneernning nr
Femm the n nf hapnnn Frt--es M4-n . a Hanty Mtoecal nivt, Repre : i L Crsict Rerds, A tuu a - JAMA, Apral or 1972 . Vol 220, 2
mined ulway eual in emaniis
i t Cully . = : - Pynn..hunis H-r State of suthh high-vulaiib estrrn
Pomnsskania vr in r irmed ly - jwheidd 1-tn
10346287
