BOULDER DAILY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

Area stores

SA

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For the Delly Camera
"soor
kids.
kar

referring to the Increased enforce-
pènally Tur Hunaa tobacco eor m
pau; 3 Anq. Uli cigarelles. The
the cigarettes. and, if asked. they
(See BOULDER, Page 3C)

mont.

Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky OFQ8nOuS
nesses this week during a crack. gercaught_were issued. summonn
down on selling cigarettes to ml- to appoar ut court. The. maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve noris B $200 fine.
of the American Cancer Soclety's Tho Juna involved two tcams.
Great American Smokcout, was In- Each included u uniformed oocer.
tended o1 educate clerks that it's il- a piain çlothes ouncer. pue omi
legal to sell tobacco producte to Fairviow High School girte, Who
Police targeted gas stations, -005 giris' parenis signed a waiver al-
vénience, drug, grocery and " lowing them to takc partin.thc.op:
"aa has never been enforced, said The Juvenlles wero told not to
Jopinog Policc Olficer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
"We'e letting the stores know had to show identification.

"coun stores. mnun, recently, the eratlon.
thie is going to happen,' ehc sald,

Boulder police sting stores
for cigarette sales to minors
At the Conoco atation, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry
28uh SL, one of the girts asked when she was jastied ASum
the cashier for a pack of Mart mons. oys raid 340 was N stu
boro Lights. Omcer Rob Hauke- juep. and couldn't prore 2u
ness, In plain dlohhss, poogs In court costs. HAukeness pou W-
-inehhhhind her to witnese thç vongole her, saying she -ino
A placard near the cash regis. the District Attorney to do com
ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice instcad of paying
clerk asked tn see some identifi The clorks, not the store OwTi:
cation The buyer produced lier ert or manugers, have to pay the.
she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'L du it to .siund
cd at the license, act i down on stores or clerks,' she said.
the counter, and sold her the though, when you scc clerks "Al-:
Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Police targeted 15:
stepped Jn and identified him slorcs end clerks al all but four
eelf a3 a police officer. Manka recelved summonses.
came In and wrote the clerk A Thic wock's operation wax the.
"When I see them ask for an year. The Arst sting. conductee
E I think they're going to 2 in September, targeted 16 stores
esnt the cale," Haukeness sald. und SI clerks received sum-

(From Page 1C)

The clerk at Colony Market,

transaction.

prububly work out a deal-with-

No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ane,
driver's license, which showed court costs.

cigarettes.
summons.

ing, you might think otherwis.. cry: -
punaas tobacco sale stine this:

"But uhey never 8

monges.