pa18
.AAP
: ACH -
Relative Hepatotoxicity of Some Industrial Solvents after Intraperitoneal Injection or Inhalation Exposure in Rats INOVAR LUNDBERO, MARIANNE EKDAHL, TONY KRONEVI. VITAUTS LIDUMS, Reseurch Depurmmear, National Rowd " Ovreeute Safery und Neel - S-171 8 Suden. Sweden Intruperisoneal LD, (icshal done SOA her velu . maimul liver teaic dun in ! Sprugue-Duwlly nuls were deverminnd ler Ihe S induinnl woe loluene. 1 un L - in hiuroethene inchlore eshykene. ehhun methyl cihw suunee and une he the huieenngg woveini LC. i . . whe Jec a anee aviin chlore form. frte churosshylene and dmmhhhyiformamm HDME The krrm acteray of the a myme worbitel dehydrogenuse (SDH - wne . - - lu A hae damage Carbue s chloride chlorufurm and DMF hepelouuni kus dune cumpared h 9 vahues l w and x i Chlurutirm and DMP . 4 - inhulation esoosur 5 value apprusimetely ww and 140 i Even relatively 1 doses e the hhr wov 4 h w the suer ccvii Signikann direc (merabe à neduaed hepalotonicHy acem l be in 1 cummor fratue emune commonly ved The hepatoloxicity of some industrial sulvents. especially carbon tetrachloride and chloroform har been extensively studied Data concerning liver loxicity can be found whe for marfy other solvents Huwever, the liver luxicity has in only few çases been studied relative lo other cllects uf the sulvents In occupational medicine this 1 of informatuor is of w me value 4 ellects with significance for the establishment ul threshold lumu vidue ar ut par licula interest Sever al methuds ha a been used le cvaluale luah lever damage in caperimental animals. delermunatfor of diflerent lne end yme 4 uviee in serum A raised activity of such enzymes is cauved by increaved leakage of the enzymes through the cell membrunes but H is uncertain whehee this lcakage is € in an inevi table develupment of cell necre (Zammerman, 1976) Huwever, thr enzyme analyses provide better quantitative estumaicy E the exient of necrovis and are casier lo perform than microscopical samunatior uf tissue preparations Though limited necrosis can only be detected microscopic ally certair enzymes are highly sensitive for liver cell necrosis Korsrud et a 01972 1973) have shown that sor- bitol dehydrogenase (SDH)" is such an cnzyme. In studies where different 1 Abbreviations ver DMF dimechylformamidee SDH sorbitu dehydrogenase. ALAT alanin aminotrunslerase LDy lethal done NP ka LC. leshal cetr ration xo E TDe loak doe * TC - loxi cone cniraticn so% Throughour uhe I wivee vnice ( i solvensppcanu a miature relen se volume percent. The rolume les whe miature . neglecied.
AND STINA LUNDBERO Received May 19
ylene chloride carbun teirachhorid 2 urech and minimul hver lvan - concen (TD, Blac Juse $ - a -p . were hepululonk . comparutively ke . (TC, luuni C ustrial solvenu .
INTRODUCTION
411
0011-915UM S1 - .
2501661843
