1K02223022

Life Sciences Vol. 15. pp. 1291-1300
Printed in the 4.s.A.

Perganon ress

A

or an Ca PYR BY KECROSOHT FRON
TIS or PRECNANT Ave E PA STER
Irena T. Wang. Ronald E. R smuesen and T. Timothy Crnckert
Cancer Research Eu itute, Univeraity of California San Prancisco, and Depart-
ment of Community and A eiroonoona Medieine, Univernit of California, Irvine*.
(Received in final form 26 August 1974
Summary
Pratreatees of hansters vith benzo (a)pyrene (BaP) greatly increased
the Ln vitre netabol is of het by lung alere anhe fron prognant har
atare, and I lewe effect on the metaboll - of Pap by 1iver miere-
somee - The produetion of various metaholites of BaP by lune niere-
aihydrodihyyloosy-Be (9,10-d1o1) and 7,8-diol vere incrensed tore
than thae of the 4,5-diel. In she chee ef 1iver mierosomeo only uhe
yielde of 9,10-dio1 and 7,8-diol wara increaeed ovar the contrel
levels, The presence of eyelohexene oxide in the incube tion mir
tures decreased the production of the dioln. Basal-level enevee
activitles in placental fetal 1iver, and fetal akin microson e in
metabolizine hP were very low. Pretreatment of pregmant hane tere
with RaP indaced RaP-metabolizing enzvme in fe : tierue 2-3 fold.
femd in coal tar. eir ral oll, car exhaust, tohacco smoke. a - foode, ete.
à In vitro etadice showed thae ne tabolie activation of BaP le required for
ite intaraction vith proteine and nuclele selde (2,3). Earller studien wihh
rat liver pr eparations 14,5) 5 harater 1iver microsome (6,7) shoved that Bar
le metaholized mainly 8 phenolie and dihydredihydrowy (diel) derivativee, and
to quinomes which are enzymatie or air owidation peoducte of unatable phenolic
metabolitau is'e) a vell a some unidentified more polar metabolites. The
metabelies ef Rat has generally been neamred hq the production of 3-hydronyy
Ber (3-OR-BAP) whtch Je often one of the major metalolites Ln vitro 5 3-OH-
K-regton epowides et e a polycyelie aronatic hylrocarton IAA hled to cell-

sonos wa ieeraane to aure
wan cne of the nator sat

nnt 1-hudpoww.BA (3-CH-BAP
. the matabolic yielde or 9.10

Benue (alpyrene (DaP1 le . carcine and

neental contant that in

DAP ie toric te aultured calle (9) hut it show
DBA in vitro (6) end has not been

lirtle interactin w th
to be . arcinoeenic. On the other hand,

1291