CRR
CELL REGULATION, Vol 2, 373-381, May 1991
Activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors inhibits cell cycle progression of small cell
lung carcinoma
Carol L. Williams and Vanda A. Lennon Departments of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Immunology, and Neurology Mayo Clinic and Foundation Rochester, Minnesota 55905
model for studying the dysregulation of cell cy- cle progression. This highly metastatic tumor accounts for 25-30% of all lung cancers and causes > 25 000 deaths annually in the United States (Birrer and Minna, 1989). SCLC cells ex- press receptors for several autocrine growth factors, including gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP, homologous to amphibian bombesin) (Cuttitta et al., 1985: Carney et al., 1987), insulin- like growth factor-l (IGF-I) (Macauly et al., 1988: Nakanishi et al., 1988b), and a transferrin-like molecule (Nakanishi et al., 1988a; Vostrejs et erates different intracellular second messen- gers, which must converge on a common point In addition to receptors for peptide growth factors, some SCLC cell lines express musca- rinic (Sorenson et al., 1983; Cunningham et al., 1985; Williams and Lennon, 1990a) and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (Maneckjee and Minna, 1990). The ability of acetylcholine receptors to regulate cell proliferation has recently been (Conklin et al., 1988: Ashkenazi et al., 1989; Maneckjee and Minna, 1990). Based on our finding that activation of M, muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (MAChR) causes hy- drolysis of phosphoinositides (PI) and inhibits voltage-gated Ca** channe activity .n SCLC cells, we proposed that mACHR activation may affect SCLC proliferation (Williams and Lennon, 1990a). We report here that mAChR activation inhibits DNA synthesis induced by serum, bom- besin, insulin, or IGF-I in SCLC cells. mACHR agonists arrest SCLC cells iE both S and G2/M phases of the cell cycle. mACHR activation ap- pears to disrupt a common event induced by different growth factors, which follows signal transduction by growth factor receptors mACHR activation decreases DNA synthesis by cells growing exponentially in serum Carbachol decreases "H-tyyiddine uptake by cells cultured 5 serum (Figure 1). This inhibition
We prevlousty reported that activation of musca- rinic acetylcholine receptors (mACHR] of M, subtype causes hydrolysis of phosphoinositides and inhibits voltage-gated Ca? channel activity in small cell lung carcinome (SCLC) cells. We now report that mACHR to arrest in S and G,/M phases of the cell cycle, concomitant with 8 decrease In DNA synthesis. Cell cycle progression and DNA synthesis resume when mACHR are down-regulated. In serum-starved SCLC cells. mACHR activation inhibits DNA synthe- by serum, bombesin, insulin, or insulin- like growth factor-1. The finding that DNA synthesis is inhibited even when mACHR are activated after exposure of cells to growth factors indicates that decreased signal transduction by growth factor re- ceptors le not the mechanism of mACHR-mediated growth inhibition. Our data suggest that mACHR activation disrupts 8 common event that is induced by different growth factors and is fundamental for In normal cells, the transition from proliferation to terminal differentiation is marked by with- drawal from the cell cycle and an inability to reenter the cycle in response to growth factors. Transformed cells do not undergo this transi- tion, but constitutively remain in the cell cycle; the regulation of cell cycle progression is dis- rupted (Heldin and Westermark, 1984; Wein- stein, 1987; Kraus et al., 1988). Small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC)' provides a clinically relevant Abbreviations: GRP, gastrin-releesing peptide; ICse, hat. maximal uouqiu concentration IGF-I, insulin-like growth factor-1; mAChR, muscarinic acetylcholine receptors; PBS. phosphate-buffered saline; PI, phosphoinositides; SCLC, e 1991 by The Americen Society for Cell Biology
activation couses exponentially growing SCLC cells al., 1988). Activation of these receptors gen-
to induce SCLC proliferation.
sis Induced
recognized
cell cycle progression. Introduction
Results
small cell lung carcinoma.
373
