AAEEGGRRIHT
New! Improved! Dangerous?
4PA More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium, Experts Fear Taric Reactions
By Lavanuu LaSUN Germ a 1he Feckanym Rer herd e oereal - A aas lupchtime ham . cheese sand- en and . comple of wegetables topped with mongarine, kiluwed bn dal muliivita RREAKFAST min P pill kor nutritional inemman Ther while watching TV in the evening lalteup Col- a cap) A le ereum Sound - a paichmbrrtned Mine Mald orance he pertry rensonable, ridlP Actually. depending on the brand yoe LUNCH dante yuc day thamo corld met you he Bom chees derec tween 3000 and 3.00 miBiiraan of cald am wigatiicntlly meee the a Tolerable Upper Larnaee Level e 2,500 miligram set by the the Natiomal Arademg et Sdemes AFTERNOON SNACK (hAS) S many food are how fortitiet with calcuum tht a ha become mace easder wa over the safety let Ant the hus somee E DINNER wition resenseere concermed "A whh anything loe 1 ch be woes Richard Wood, chiet of the ceuller Mioavvylablilty Labomtory ar the Itman Nutrition Research Center . Th University in Boeton. Uhh window between aptimal intade and the upper link le ree thvely mall . Indeed, the "areequae intah entaltiibed by thr NAS i 1,000 12 1,300mil lep Brean Calelum R varilla ice cream ligramaa der depending en agn, Oibr twice dost marertad - Gont and Safeway that "yneou and you' ve reached the sadety eeiling Hvr marg other eutrionta, yor'd TOTA lave b hncromne the adeqmne intake mram tim hefore maching risg kevela What can happen i you take h toe much mlcium ower tmee? Woed suy Uhere havr been "en the order of 13 enw report oo cal den torkcity, which can mawiles iter 3 a ligra pertups Jui some A ther hmclion. the wwaandd a can catee wonn furmation, m duend vin batee wuw ee
much more akium thee a band of dee real enntalaed 300 in 400 mitiigram er de or course, s Pardur's Wewver, Srr pen niw gettingg eelyy 200 ln 400 milliprams at: calcur daily the coreal Ppa atiz he u- Ad. Anl a lot e people do D and dha 1 Wood emerrr 1 yo dont Brink mil,, your cudrium comumngtion le alunt 800 le 400 milligrams an. he wev # . rule of thumh people ahork Wich the exocptioo of licanyy, thoud de re archere agrce that it's salcut aot tn nat a mnee than 2.000millggmmeee Cenrhum daily, regandheee n variations e aheorption ratcn "Coum up Weaver aays. - w purre nue gening ahw 2300 Woo mny dar ataying with dh Duu e partimaar concern in houschobde with b indiiu trying bn Hel moree calciun and ho teenage son who already gets plenty he shoer dint of the amount of food he eats. a might An I ciaradrtiiied Lonng julce, a cimn fortitidd A cerenl and a an. but ho gurdes milk ne hee a u Uhe amtaiser - fovelall practire a I . couple nt bowe a echedd a an after-cchol sud * could & be thoesued of Lr getung Riwm ofcalchun Waad and echer rescerchers - agrcy dhal an bent en pet: your calcium firem a mar etp ed foods rather then 000 or two heavily furtifsed cnwe and Uta a kaue sour of R sboudd come foom mik and other dairy Emo wota "Iisturiiylyy Weaver uxpluin,, ap whe have berr deficient in enlcium A lern lor in mapacsitm, rinrlavin, vitami 1 vitamin ur 1 maraabee in mik was kdnd of oncatup shupping ke pur that f with hed conomera too moncrmedd Jamen Fleet, mineval rescarcher at Bur proterted hus be campirada Aud ir' weakened hhy ine Retle witamin
A Calclum-Fortifled Day 3/4 np Rotal pered cup bolclum-lort 4 aki a t 200 an 1e dein chovi: Wuvde Englid 5 l.tt C bar e2 a dhice braas 1/2 cup hroccol tnpped with t Shedis Semad Courin Croc Ph Calcim baled potate, tapped wie . tbe Shedfs Seread Courrry Rack PuuCaaiim VORAR9R....... EVENING SNACK te w
The calcium reccmmendacion fr teenagre le 00E'1 midiigrams: adults 1o age an, 1000 milligrams: and adulu Sl-luus, 1.200 milligrams.. Het with the dovens of enkelure foctiset foods on the merket in a to comeunee deen
mineral, more 2,500 w ee CALER estomes L000 110 350 90 know 100 120 272 ai 150 110 200 1 22 . 162 GO0 2t0 3 1,487 FuR people Wemer
a
today,
d Enllwwed k . sacc 1 in the milligram de Tulerable Upper Inteke Lad a Un the Nathaaal Acalnn ef late altormoo.. A dimer some becloe chirk Sclenre ann en diet of enly vog' calurion, Check au the huuumin mAT
E aral Bune Metaboli-m Lab at Tu/ts, this parkage of mudrkwte N - a . ecreal, Taar an exccasive level ether substanees fnven colrium fortille
tho.. disrine und wol theue cal-ifiraiio.. ouee - that calcumm Betile foode autres She alw queatlune the LOX 1 - : lade mone ditiiue ir y e a The Mingn made a and therue, w br am cesonatle eotion L favvor the comorpt Nirrm ef calctum nww - te every sere Ins fe wee cakciun bet m4 mreesauriyy dheve Then. ton, Aypercalcemaa., as toxiclyy er Omuha And * Wond, he not partie an amprecndopted kevel, procubly higher Inrin Rosenberg durector of the Nutri have had stere kartippirrly thr port Ton mach dade whn coasume lots mere than ithe) 1 A L a 4 the quirka i the hody's ahsorption tion e single nutrient will be people intu a can ale reduce abaurgtion ef tw other claime Some populations wha depend on a a cald ute A wri absorb more calcium i thinkfog ther te nourisbhung themelvvs ade entisleinnrabc trou and rin the batter e lanedyy en dury diet. yach an cowberds in you hare direeed doses throughout the da quately. "Yon dont g ot the hook of wo widch h aecueuryy for wound bealing and Eas Alrica and the Lapps whe herd reindeer 4 y Thacys wly poggk who uhe 600 lidd praleur dictary cholces because yuu a pruper Besctionlng e the ismune gntem in northern Scandinavia, "typicaliy ge 0,000 millipanns worth of eulcium suppleweents pichedone ue t heavily bortiled fods a uperuarret sbelves rabes the Fur imtanue. Breyer's in num tod market I thet the enkcimm in Uhe vereel d dE density in ab strengahened ly excrdee," he Not Uhet Wond thinks enee cium-fortified R1 calchum per tuNeupp inatead of the typical every 300 miligramun nt ralcium consumed ae E is necessary fe cakclum absorp I area bad thing "tthikk they e pond 100 milligrams, and Heaney remarks, Tw (the amount in a om of mok the hode ah din- and pertaps by 100 much sodjun aor E be suya. Avcenge intakee are much mesed fechne on the juck faxd situa morbs 1o0 miligrams, de ronglly 30 peecent. calicdne. Bod rubniances wuck tu fish the be a wnenn 20 be a yeare e aweuer Adde Conele Winnee auchu lnvestiga Che ahrorption rate mno I I you hne M other mudda, a Mon pete i. "eald onby about 7ux miliggsmm et cnlcimm dag tor a Pardue Ualvernity in Weat Lalayette, three to ker evp A milk in one Rate um h onb ene part ef the - 4 he wlen thry shouk he curviamingg 1.00 mit lad Telate bo ace prople w the po 1 cuntains alont 1.000 miltigruun T cuuee yoe ve 1 hyr e Total doesn lerra And wumen a8 pu oldes, whe needingtogel pnoo ealcim teea loes dwialics to 11 peeemn hou 150 8 moi voe X anveed all à ho-e lne hn ourr abuut lel Uet a on 10 1 alm problem whil making another ann Ipreva ame arrving mpplicc 1.000 milllgram,, yeu Buting Richr codummit Lawmene eltr inere an the onde a a 8 9 mil Ben Dunre Haghen chief ot the Calci Inchh wind yo a met nhsurbing terribly Uwineryity Health A Nidriti
perticulurly minnemhlr. he remmrks, and e fortificution, siys Robert Heunyy. eakc
um researcher at Creighton Linivrrslty ir Cartifiatiio,, ahr comments E certalni foodk
N
F ularty concerned abowt anyoee 1 ovet than ln an ocher cakclum furtaned lod. too Jocacarch Center ut Tute lsparticulurty
people wbu D "There arc lote of very henithy
ha JuL rese rvarions, be
W had study a noet mrropausa WOHP te 00072 milligann el oalcimm per à and d ae advineet te wallee theer the a00 aay a Winn reports Higg-ealcim dicte ne hew "absclutely no probiems, he wyy milligram pille 11 different nacab While sech penblems bave hoe rare wnd about whdeh food dhe minest rragrvcknn oncht to condadedd hsconadallilyyy testing he Totals vour bones dirvet e thrie hecoming mere common ing he eream thel contalon 300 milggrnnn I ant a wellas theekkhra in mil.. He shoudd he antiing 1200 mititrrame ar tak a br and calories. Then yowre solving ode ligram,, a the ( with the Total Since
Phr he andothers do hane some
Heen a damomdrated the point w he de proute ont tuo the nat dont ever have produvr General Mas Ce one hand, cause you re getting . of caddunn. We lut u dh enkcimm a A ma Ber a mineral fromn the banly vir Uhe urine ahmorb seh abuut 100 ho them,, Heaney wo Lindmer cmewwfivr eltee S Du
www, the plethura - calcium Hortinedd Reum added to mwch lowe dun she reconunendatkoss 5 LE
au dtry for men althomgh the and for thren mece et obesityl I
