- rG
986
Coal Workers'
Pneumoconiosis
Correlation of
Roentgenographic
and Postmortem Richard L. Nacye, MD, and Woodrow S. may vary in inciderice and Somerset Counties of central categories for pneumoconiosis were mined anthracite roal.
Findings Dellinger, MIS rank, low-volatile cost in Cambrin and l'ean- ryivanla. Nonc of the men had ever cucted between Surveys epn- aot and 19-55 ly ths Pennaylvanin d Mineral Dparimvat of Miner Inalustries phured ar; a verage coal dunt werk- exposure per iny Mhift of 11,U,EN cale fout of air fur partidles per biturinus work- free Th silica euntent of cual d awt le low a ail arenn ef - Rekdons heiny: greater Pnneyha- iban :.. However, the mine durt cvhevatra- t an of freg ailina In grester far sonte a iergrounsl wurkens puch as Fof G crntriluhu- l iers and eledrie Invonive lo paraciciticial a 3 who drill inte ilva-hearing tuierrulusin and n or encountir palverin - othr di - prvekaes," The 17 cascs selerted rand, These Srparate diregve pevses 11. reigh sA te halid a search af diferiag: autepy dks ly msitailg- e! authera, whn risifed eAchof Fyven disability. l is the piirpnse B mngral huspital and read erery aue evahate thcir L y protorul that lavohed a inilueneen n the man rurntyen- a Ser thans a yrar of Age wi of parumorminsis 1 trevn 0sot E aarl I:his. The Ps determine if pars- fer cases atarted aich with the with diabilits esita in Rirts" patit sonse workers witlnst asyuricter! descriptisof th lun,s, : ly Tip t ete was ans mentinn of 8 sve almormalities pi.ment, parenchymal nndul - nana Patients Studiod and Methods ni er any hlatury of minins:. the ti. mt' clinical chart was 1n- ean.inad. frum lnneyhania anel Weal datn were esir.cte: A ginia, Vir E a M : inrludul in the Thir:g-ane had utwaya minei nf atudy s dun unly Pt-s. a tgatinnal espsagre crd 1 af smthneatern specii minen Lar a l'mnaglvania a in : tirused ly a Te garil-le nerhy nerthrn W Vir,itis Tl 7: mail hll Fvsise ether a hanl alvayr maine d highrr. in" Iiglan tis -sinz smating wA4 anhtained. Irun'. - No 2 Pys -de : N a A Dellur 3 223 PUBLICATIONS 027050
Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is not a single disease composite o multiple disorders, each of which severity from one patient to another. bituminous coal, roentgenographic found to correlate well measurements of E the volume of nodules, and (2) the silica (silicon dioxide)and macules and nodules. reçognition of emphysemo and which appear to be mosi closoly correlated miners no with emphysema, cor pulmonale, and dyspnea in addition with silica and collagen,
process but a
In a study of 77 miners of with quantitative. postmoriem anatornic pulmonary dust macules and collagen content of dust Unferlunately. there was poor rocntgenepaphic chronic cor pulnonale, th tnudisorcers with dyspnea. A number of er, lo dust macules
roentgenographic évidence ot pneumosoniosis had rom 10 to 46 of Appalachian chitis and hronchiolitis; coal workers have rorntgeno- lur, graphie evidenc of pncu- meconionia, hut 3 relatiuns hetween ousiumally such rontgenugrphie ahnormalitics, early stages." TheAe difliculties Lalun is not a single disense but a composite uf multiple disorders, cach of which nay vary in inridehre gruphic aren, exurt posure, and opgarent individual sus- eeptibility." These nultiple dise Faxm I lgann n - Lninerity Cullpe 4 * 4 à I plury Keprins Ft - : M : 1. 3 s. 1 Cvakt, Fles su. 2 :u die Dargs) wwwr April 10, 1972 . Vol 220.
panlolular, and emphysema: und (3) prol of the current stuly tn proess Another ain is to mconivsis
symptoms, .and beens difinalt ably arie workens" and
physical findinge huve appr to make Lo make, epecially in tions to from the fact that roal individoal pneummconiosis ("black ographie featurv severity, dupendent upon Ro- enigenographic
occupatiunal es
ordes indude(llthe primary ennl alust Jutiruts,-The patints Wwe a un nr - informatinn Banhvy Sledical C. hist, Pnnhunis Siale lewrank high-rulatil- sas! ise rnties ir anel in
maculu; (2) silivuring (a) chrunie hnan- dergruand mniners ef lituminuus gnal les andl athr mcerniny n,a
10346287
