DAILAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Tezas April 14, 1954
Tobacco Firms New Cancer NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing Industry chargod Tuesday "gensa- auctioneers. picture of the relationship of committee issued co causes lung cancer.
Ask Studies growers and tobacco tional" atatements linkdng smoking Among those quoted by the com- and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer United States Gov- ernment, which said a a 1953 k cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of lung caneer for exhaustive research to estab- had not been established. Several lish the basic cause of the disease. of the institute's scientists also Others quoted were the Damon a bookdet conr Runyon Fund, which called for taining previously published state- more research, and Chicago & ments by thirty-six cancer authop- cer Surgoon Dr. Max Cutler, who itles doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons by other cancer experts that tobac- deveiop lung cancer partly because may ot smoking but that to accept 5 The earliest, whitten le 1923, said conclusion of a direct there were irritants in tobacco but le all cases is "unscientitic relationahip and none that wouid produce tunnors. hazardous. The most recent; dated ast March I smoke ls the lungs were 16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of be done before causes of lung can- have had it long ago, canoer, the all cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report Littie, The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratary, Bar Har- 5 January te combat mounting bor, Maine. charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the up de nearly every major cignrette University of Texas School of Medi- manufacturer and organizations eine, the Metropolitan Life Insr-
alded
Institute of the
The tobacco industry research were cited.
we'd a
can s establisbed
director of the Roscoe B, Jackson ance Company and British author- ities, Neariy all those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until an absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report SEAs described by an industry spokesman as an A terim" statement, nouncement pending ame of the choice of a prominent scientist to supervise basie cancer research le be f- nanced by the industry. That scien- tist will decide how the industry's cancer-research money is to be spent. No date has been set for his selection. AE the last count, the committee said; there were more than 850 cancer research grants 5 the United States alone, "any one of which might produce evidence to unlock the secrets of lung cancer,
CLO 138765
