STRICKMAN FILTER WINS 2D CONTRACT Another Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs to Usel t By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pali Mall of Canada, Ltd., the second-larg- est cigarette sompany le that country, contracied yesterday with the Strickman Foundation 01 pay a penny a *ed royalty for use of the filter invénted by Robert L. Strickman. The company, which is 9 per cent British-owmned, but Canadian-managed. sells 12 bil- lion cigarettes a year, very few of them in the United States. The agreement was the second bs two days with the founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Compuny of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company, with annual salcs of more than 8! billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement; that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. Strickman, was surrendering its rights to the filter to the foundation. The university said * had "made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering a highly con- troversial end competitive com- mercial fieid." Million le Royalties Expected Columbia's financlal stake in the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to IC Iast summer by Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set up on Wednesday by! the New Jersey chemist as a charitable institution to ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has received $200,000 in advance royalties. According to Robert > Katz, the unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts cauld eventually bring hn mbout $5 million a yearin rog'altlés. Mr. Katz, a Jawyer who. Is secretary of Seagram's Distil- leries, said that Rothman's Pall nfall of Canada hed been test- ing the Strickman filtor since last Auzust. Wilmat Tennyson, vicc pres- ident of Rothman's, said of the device: "We a sntisticd that! nothing exists o which gives comparclie Sfittration without adveredty affectinig the flavor of the cigarette. takes out 'mcre suspect ele- ments withia te suniext of ac ceptabla flavor, we fcel that as cigarette compiny" # shnuld 3
New York Times March 1, 1968 Page 34
a
- Clalms Are Disputed The claim thiat the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ing ciparette flavor has boen a subject of controversy. Among the most outspokén critics of the filter has beeniF Eenator Warren G. Magnuson ON Washington, who has con- tended that its claims have been &çatly exaggerated. noyL many governmental and grivale health reports byi. experts, have called cigarette tar and hiçothne health hazards, Columbia Wnivsity, in a re- port on thèv Shckman filter made public 3 Wednesday, avoided making  conclu- So far no United Shates ciga- rette companies are belièved to be close to a contract fx the filter. Experts say that dones- tic companies need not fèar competion in this country from the Canadien cigarettes because of a 15-cent import duty on each package. Pall Mall cigarettes are manu- factured le this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana- dian concern.
sions.
research.
ue
*
