True-Taise Questiont on the Chenistry and Paychophyslplogy. of Odor end Flevor l. H Song nodern workers suggest that nocurate mensurement of vibrationn! frequency (in the far Infrared, for example) of ue unknown odorant will permit prediction of 1s quallty nnd intensity. T No elenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone hos any odor: Instead they react "ith the mucoss foraing new products whlch are sme lled; 1 T a Sone odorants have sterlc or vibretional propertles which force the cone luslon : they are odor less whon they are not 11. i Present evidence strongly suggests thet different parts of the olfactory receptor ares, IIke tho retino tn he eye, are qua ty-specifle. T Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor a No one yet has a e clue as fo the criticol reletion between the molecule nna he receptor which pernits an odor perception. 7 The greater Tive secretion rate of vcous or sallva, the N gher their 'd and both Hd and temperature influence the quality of sensation in the 111. T The Ideal instrumentel detector would respond to odors in the sane quantitetive range as doas an 8 1 or human sub ject. 7 * Such an Ideat detector has not huen developed. n observors with head In fixed position cen Aq virtue of the two Indoponient nostriis easily discern stereo Sioll effects, l.e. they can tell whofier dues orfor on Is at the right or lefr hand, snt os one uses his fwo ears in locating the source of a sound. T For certaln musk- Iko compounds, forty molecules ar sufficlent to trigger - humon offact ory response. V. - Adaptation 04 one olfactory unb lity does not significantly reduce sensirivity to ony ofher dissiel far Quallty, but dens reduce sensi- tIvity to ail sinl lAr quellties. T By employing a sialierities nethod of comparing qualities, one can novr obtain Idenfity nnd degrees of difference without recourse to irohlo- vi. 1 Hunger loers thresholds siight ly to some food qualltios but not for 1 : le now possible to Identify the Intensity and quality of a certain given stimull siaply by experi examination of the electrophysiologieel record taken from approprlate ortor or taste neurons. T Electrical stimuletion of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallle" or "alkaling quality. T a Direct electrice stimuletlon of the olfactory senso has successfully eccomplished. vIl. T - Although tofal anosala is rare In humans and ageus le even rarer, there Is evidence hat in analogy to color vision deficiences, sone people are Insensitive to (only certein) quallties while having nornal sensitivity to others. T Toplcal enesthetics applled to the tongue shos thn di fferent quellties 1 Certain endocrine disesse entitles nake = possible for coe people quire sensitively to "snel!" such "odor less" subistances as sucrose or sodiun chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to nonsal by eanipuletion of endocrine levels. T & onenopause wonon at the Ime of ovulation find certain odors extrenely disegreeable while at ofher ines In the menstrun cycle thess sane odors
sone elenents possess taste.
surface In order to be sne! led.
chemica! senses.
Iv.
sone or ds. others.
yer beon
50
of taste diseppear af different rates.
they wil Judge quire pleasent.
