Vol. 285 No. 29

EDITORIALS

1517

The New England
Journal of Medicine
Official Organ of
he Massachusetis Stedical Society
Founded in 181 as te NEvr ESGEAND JOUNAL ow
MEDICINE AND SURGERY and continued in 1828 as Vol. ef
the Bostos MEDICAL AND SUAGIcAL. JOUANAL,
PUBLISHES WEEKLY 8y THE COMNITTEE o PUBLICATIONS
or THE MASSACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY
Claude a Welch, M.D., Ghninsan
Joseph Carland, M.D.. EDIToR EMERITUS
Franz J. ingelfinger, M.D., EDIToR
ASSOCIATE EDtroas
Georyre S. Richardson, M.D., Boos REVIEWS
O'Leary, ASSISTANT
EDITORTAL BOARD

ACTION ON ASBESTOS
ASBASTOS workers are umintentional victims of
industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary
fibrosis. pleural calcification, mesothellomas and lung
cancer. Asbestos exposure is nosw widespread,
involving not only air but also
wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the
lungs of people without indlustrial asbestos ex
posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or
ferruginous bodies may be, there l- no doubt that
electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers
ease in the general population at this time, the
presence of asbestos be their lungs is disturbing.
Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by
mose chemical and physical means and can float
freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods.
Asbestos discases have a long latent
sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must
the
now, on basis of "reasonable
ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition
of dose-response relations
These thoughts are reinforced by the work of

drinking water.

Alexander Marble. M.D,
Samucl Proger, M.D.

Sacl S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al-
Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-

20
period,
probabili-

Jane F. Desforges, M.D.
Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.
Robert
Robert E, Johnson, M.D.
Norman 9 Levinsky, M.D.
Francis D, Moore, M.D,
Charies A. Sanders, M.D.
Jerome H. Shapiro, N.D.
Ronald A. Arky, M.D.
Dana L. Farnsworth, M.D.

Ronald A. Malt, M.D.
EDIToR

Arnold L. Smith, M.D, years or more. We therefore believe that more

be made

John W. Lidefield M.D, Murphy and assoclates in this fssue of the Journal
Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, 6 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in
Louis Weinstein, M.D, new ship construction include better than
John R. David, M.D. exposure data and Indicate a high incidence of as-
Edward A, Gaensler, M.D. pestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have
Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-

Howard Bleich, M.D,

usual

Isadore N. Rosenberg, M.D.
Milion C. Paige, 4 BUSINESS MANAGER

tions. A second study of Murphy et al. reports two
cases of pleural disease (one mesothelloma) in
workers who sanded asbestos foor tiles. Since the

AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Jour degree of asbestos exposure wwas unknown, the au-
unl should consult "information for Authors." Tbis material thors simulated the working conditions and found
may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour concentrations of 1.3 Sbers per millliter 'of room
Nel, or it may be obtained from the loanaal office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of currently
space, and all material, including higures, should be submit- used threshold limit values. A fiber per milliliter of
CASE REPORTS. usualiy published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 10 Abers every
gence" section, should include only the pertinent details ard work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled

manuscript, including references, should be typed double
reference to anticles reporting closely related cases. A very Rbers remains le the
short case report or : description of technic submicted as a
"BRICY RECORDINC" should e limited to 500 seords.
MATERLAL printed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period.
cine is covered by copyright The Jourwal does nos hold itself
responsible for statements made by any contribusor.
NOTICES should be received not later than noon on Mon-
day, 24 days befone date of publication.
cies published. Requests should be sent to the author.
imply endorsement by the Jovrnal,
Arbor, Michigan 48106.
chusetus 02115.

ted in duplicate.

room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per
an alarming number will still accumulate over a 10-
A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation-
al Academy of Sciences panel has called for control
of asbestos emissions at the source and for protec-
The report also calls for further rescarch on the
Abers: such data are urgently needed "If a

these
lung,

-

figures suggest that

REPRENTS: The Journal does not stock reprints of the artl- tion of those who ane exposed In their occupations.
ALTHOLGH all advertising material accepted is expected to biologic effects and the physica! characteristics of
SUBSCRIFTION PRICES worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with
interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates: are in U.S. fundsonly, confidençe." Although we endorse these recommen-
MICROFILSE volumes available to regular subscribers dations. we want to underline the urgent need for
through University Microfilms, 315 N. First Street, Ann technical controls based on existing knowledge.
COMUNICATIONS shouid be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as-
land fournal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other Aibers and analysis of their effects

conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance docs not asbestos

on cells and tissues nre important and must be con-