PKu ANE
Carcinagenels vul 1S n41 - rp.2721-2725, n661
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino.-l-G-pyridyl-1-butandne and benzolaipyrene: a potentially usefu! model for evaluation of
L3420
chemopreventive agents
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Flealeh Foundation. Valhalla, NY 10595. USA
models examined to date (2). BaP is a protorype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (1). We have chosen the A/1 mouse because previous
The purpose of this study swas to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluntion of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas ane induced lung cancer in smokers, Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression 01 by 4-tmethylnitrosamino)-1-0-py, 1)-I-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined and benzofalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in combination. Groups of Cemale A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastric afcara (i-g-) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of intraperitoneal injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis Kq NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and 7,12-dimethylbenzlalanthracens (9,10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse 1o evaluate tha effects of forestomach were counted. The i-g- route of administration isothiocyanates against lung lumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4,11,12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse c be replicnted because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other mode! systems For example, phenethy! isothiocyanate the Injectionsite and associated mortality, A dose response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by ig- administration NNK in both the A/1 mous and F344 rat (11,13) mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventivs agents against single treatment. The hihest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens This may not he realistic with respect 01 tobacco of 24 jmol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke. which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The have been espeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important Comparisons of NNK and BaP given individuatly showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (11. when given by the is. route: i.p. administrations of BaP nssess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either wcre complicated by local tumor formation and mortalits, before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP. The most favorahle dosing reginien of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the muttiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 jmol of each, administered in eight weekty smoking in addition, the mode! should he relatively rapid and subdoses i-g-, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive Therefore. we exomined tumos yields obtained dosing This regimen induced 10.5:4.4 lung adenomas upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ctiylisothiocyanate given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This fumor model was employed in a and BaP, svas found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzy! isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP thls study proside a convenlent model for assessing the NNS wras synthesized in the Americas atts Foundacion Organic Syathesis efficacy of chemopreyentive agents against lung cancer Facility. lts purity was establihed A4 HPLC as >99. BaP (98% purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which Amarican Healrh Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirs containiog s4 corn oil. a previously 2 play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- irso groups ef 15 as sammarized in Table 1. At ase 7 weeks esch mosase was kers: oUnIng-I-GAPyAG-Crr-Opursonupolw)-t (NNK) treated by intraperitoneal (ip injection or by lntragastric gavage : win and benzolalpyrene (BaP) E NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriane chemical jn 0.1 ml cononseed oil. NNK an BaP were both carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung ln all rodent dissolved in the 0. E used for treatment Injections and gavages were carrind 6 *Abbreslations: NNK. smatymioumienons indivifunt dose was one -eighah of the cotal. Equimolar doses of NNK and aP, benzolelpyrene: PEITC, pheneilyl iscthiocyasaic: BITC. benzyl Ba were wsed in most of the combination groups, bacause the amounts of
which these 015) tobacco smoke carcinogens sere given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP E combination was established in the that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
Most previous studies in the A/) mouse have examined We sought to develop a model which could be used 01
5.9: 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely induction by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
Inbiblting forestomach Eusnor development. The results of Materials and methods
BITC (98% purity) and PEITC 69856 purity) wCIC abtained from the Aldrich Chomical Cempany (Milwaukee. wts Cottonseed oll sas purchased frne Female AI mice. age > weekr wene obeained fiom The Jackson Laboesnory (Bar Harbor, ME) They were hnsed under standard conditions in the The desiga ef the bioassay i allustrated la Figure 1 A mice were divided out foe 8 consecurive werks. Thi ToRal dases ae siven in Tuble L Each NNK and soral carcinogenic polyeyelic hydrocarbons in sebaceo smoke are
Sigma Chemical Co (SN Louis, MO).
Introduction to
agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
isothiocyansie. p Intriperitoncal, a intragaric gavage.
o Osford Vnaversity Press
2721
