Future Imperfect Voices of a Generation Fear for the Status Of - American Dream Despite Their Success. Many Feel Their Parents Had More Cause forOptimism Yet Outsiders Still Want In By CLARE ANSBERRY And THOMAS F. o BovLE Staff Reporters af THE a ALT STREET JOURNAL For many Americans, the future seems about as secure as a dandelion puff. An entire generation now reaching middie age is questioning whether they or their children can do better than their parents. Job security went out with three- piece suits. and pundits have coined a new term, dumpies for downwardly mobile professionals. Today, both mother and father work. not to be rich, but 9 send kids to college. The complicated family seene looks more like an Andy Warbol canvas than a Norman Rockwell portrait. Statistically Americans both rich and poor, are improving their lots. Their buying power has doubled since the 1950s, and their standard of living remains the highest a the world. Others outside the U.S. still believe people can improve their lot la America: The current wave of immi- grants is the largest since early this cen- Even so, many Americans despair about the future. In part that's because, in relative terms, America' 5, standard of liv ing isn't as far ahead a everyone else's as : once was: other countries are catching up. Nor is the U.S. rate of growth as rapid as = once was. And even some affluent Americans have discovered, as their par- ents warmed, that money doesa't buy hap- piness. The same numbers one in three Americans told researchers at the Na- tional Opinion Research Center they were "very happy" in both 1957 and 1990. No amount of money ensures happiness, con- cludes David G. Myers in his book "The Pursuit of Happiness' rather. happiness is satisfaction with whatever one has. Warren Bennis, a business professor at the University of Southern California, has another expianation for this widespread and Mahier-like melancholy. Recalling a sunny phrase o the 1930s "the long a mer of the future" he says today that feeling seems 9 be missing. "We want a
sense a arecuon and hoge from or lesders, he says trom U.S. president to corporale esecutive, universily dean and hesd of the I charity drive. These themes have been resonating. explicitly and implicitly, in the presiden tial campaign. Both President Bush and Gov. Clinton have tried to harmess the widespread malaise among voters and offer hope for the future. Mr Clinton by invoking "change at every opportunity, and Mr. Bush by promising that his poli- cies are on the brink of yielding significant A close look at several people who have seen their confidence in the future erode suggests why there is such widespread disilusionment with the American dream. But not everyone is grim. Those who have come from the poorest backgrounds or encountered the greatest hardships seem to retain the most hope. 'Everyone Seems Defeated" When Mark Donnelly cameof age in the 1960s, no problem seemed insoluble. In 1962. as a 20-year-old Army private. Mr. Donnelly went to Oxford, Miss., 0: protect James Meredith. whose enrollment at the University of Mississippi sparked race riots. For a week. Mr Donnelly stood outside Mr. Meredith $ dormitory with a rifle guarding him against attack. One student spat on him. he recalls. Mr. Donnelly also served in Vietnam. But after his discharge. he marched 00 Washington d8 pro- test the war and be- came a regional or ganizer for Vietnam Vets Against the War. While attend- Uni ing Columbia Mr. Don versity, nelly blocked police from entering a building after stu- dents had seized it. "We were a gen eration that had hoped the world could be a better Mark Donnelly piace, says Mr. Donnelly, now a 50-year- old vice president at Chemical Bank in New York City. "We naively thought that problems were solvable. Today, his view is different. The lems he sees - the budget deficit, strato- spheric health-care costs, the AIDS demic and deficient schoois - seem insu perable. The assumption that prosperity would cure social ills has hit the wall of reality in the form of intractable urban poverty and a fury that erupted in Los Angeles this spring. The proportion of households with annual incomes under $15,000 was lower in 1990, after adjustment for inflation, than in 1980 or 1970, but It remained stubbornly close to 25%. "I've become very cynical ability of our system to bring about change, Mr. Donnelly says. "There S, a real malaise in America right now. Everyone seems defeated, You no longer belleve anything's going 8 get done. Though be concedes that his current
economic growth.
tury.
prob- epi-
about the
The Wall Street Journal, 8/11/92
