P Epidemial Vol. 47, Na. 10. a 1841-1142. 1994 Copgrighe o 1994 Duvier Scicnoe L Pvinsed is Great Beitain AP righas racrvod 0895-4356/94 so +0.00
Pergamon
0895-9354949000814
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN SMOKERS, EX-SMOKERS, PASSIVE SMOKERS AND NON-SMOKERS ALSON THORNTON, PETER Leg* and JOEN FRY P. N, 3 Statistios and Computing Lad, 17 Ceder Road, Sutton, Surrey M2 SDA, England (Receaed a nmled farin & Marnh 1994) Abstract The extent to wich current, ex and passive smoking are associated with other risk factors, and the potential for confounding arising from these associations, was studiod using a representative sample of 9003 British adults. tthe distribution of 31 lifestyle (actors gencrally considered associated with adverse health were compared in current smokers, ex-smokers, never smokers living with a smoker ("passive smokens") and other never smokers. or the 33 diek factors 27 showed a significantly higher prevalence in heavy smokers than in never smokers and only two showed a lower prevalence. For many risk fuctors, prevalence increased with amount smoked, decreased with time of smoking cessation and was increased le passive smokers. The possible magnitude of bias from confounding by the risk factors is estimated. It is concluded that confounding by multiple risk factors may be an important issue in smoking studies where weak asociations are obscrved. This applies particularly to studies investigating the possible association of passive smoking with various health effocts. Smoking Passive smoking Confounding Bias
INTRODUCTION
gists normally do attempt to take account of
Numerous epidemiological studies have investi- such differences where relevant to the endpoint gatod the relationship of current smoking, past studied and thus 5 to minimize bias due to smoking and exposure to environmental confounding. Differences betwoen non-smokers tobacco smoke ("passive smoking") to mor- exposed and not exposed to environmental tality and morbidity from a variety of diseases tobacco smoke are less well studied. though (uj. Because smokers and passive smokers are recent reports [4,5) have pointed to a possible not a random selection of the population, such confounding of the lung cancer relationship by theoretical possibility that observed differences A study of the literature over many years by between the groups studied may arise, at least in one of us (PL) has led to a number of pro- part, dun 9 differences in exposure from other visional conclusions being reached. Firstly, risk factors and not wholly to effocts of smoking smokers tend to have unhealchier lifestyles than or of environmental tobaoco smoke exposure. non-smokers in a number of respocts, so that Many differences between smokers and non they would be expocted to have higher rates of smokers, such as in allcohol consumption [2]and many diseases even in the absence of any effoct social class [3). are well known and epidemiolo- of smoking Secondly, for many of these lifestyle
studies have always to take into account the diet.
0% 47 2 6 21
factors passive smokers are also somewhat worse off than non-smokers unexposed to
Aurhnr for correspondence
1143
