Copyright 1987 by The Humana Press Inc All rights ef ans nature. whatsoever, reserved. 01A3-4984N771300-0019503.X
Applications of Neutron Activation Analysis to the Study of Age-Related
Neurological Diseases
W. D. EHMANN, : W. R. MARKESBERY,A E. J. KASARSKIS,4 D. E. VANCE, S. S. KHARE, J. D. HORD, AND Departments of 'Chemistry, Neurology, Pathology, and "Sanders Brown Research Center on Aging, (niversity of Kentucky, Lexington,
C. M. THOMPSON! KY 40506.
ABSTRACT
Although the etiology and pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Pick's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis are still unknown, it has been suggested that perturbations in element metabolism may play a role. Even M not causative factors, these imbalances may prove to be markers that could aid in diagnosis. We have emploved a 3 quential neutron activation analysis (NAA) procedure to determine elemental concentrations 5 brain, hair, fingernails, blood, and cere- brospinal Ouid (CSF) of these patients and age-matched controls. Samples are first irradiated with aceleratorproduces 14-MeV neu- trons for determination of nitrogen and phosphorus, then with reac- tor thermal neutrons for the instrumental determination of 16-18 mi- nor and trace elements, and, finaily, reactor-irradiates again, followed by a rapid radiochemical separation procedure (RNAA) to determine four additional elements. Major advantages of NAA are: (1) its simultaneous multiclement capability; (2) the relative freedom from reagent and laboratory contamination; (3) the absence of major matrix effects; and (4) an adequate sensitivity for most elements of in terest. Ranges of concentrations by INAA and RNAA in selected con trol tissues and interelement correlations in control brain ane -aud sented to illustrate results ohtained by the procedure. Longitudinal studies of tissues from Alzheimer's disease (AD) and amyotrophic lat "Author to whom all correspondence and reprint requests should be addressed.
eral sclerosis (ALS) patients ane still in progress.
Biological Trace Elengnt Rescarch
19
Vn/ 13 1987
