FF

Principal Investigatcu/Program Director (Last, first, middie):

Cardenas, M.E.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH
POSITION TITLE

Give the following information for the key personnel and consultants and collaborators. Begin with thn principal

investigatoriprogram director. Photocopy this page for oach person.

NAME

Kara Dolinski

Graduate Student

EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or other initial professional education, such as nursing, and include postdoctoral training-)

YEAR
CONFERRED
1992

INSTITUTION AND LOCATION

DEGREE
Ph.D.
(candidate)

FIELD OF STUDY
Genel tics
Technical Writing &
Editing

Duke University, Durham, NC

Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA B.S.

RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Concluding with present position, list, in chronological order, previous employment, experience, and
honors. Key personnel include the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the project.
Key personnel typically will includo all Individuals with doctoral or other professional degrees, but in some projects will include individuals at the masters or
baccalaureate level provided they contribute in a substantive way o1 the soieritific development or execution of the project. Include present membership on
any Federal Government public advisory committee. List, is chronological order, the titles, all authors, andoomplete relerences to all publications during the

past throo years and te representative earfier publications pertinent le this application DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.

August 1993 . present
May 1992 May 1993
1988 1992

Graduate Student, Duke University, Department of
Lab Technician. Biogenesis of the Yeast Vacuole
(Elizabeth Jones). Carnegie Mellon University
B.S. Degree. Technical Writing and Editing.
Graduated with University Honors.
Biogenesis of the Yeast Vacuole, Carnegie Mellon

Genetics, Durham, NC

University.

Publications:

J. Heitman, M.E. Cardenas, T. Breuder, C. Hemenway, M. Lorenz, R.S. Muir, E. Lim, L.
Goetz, D. Zhu, and K. Dolinski. Antifungal effects of cyclosporinc and FK506 are
mediated via immunophili-dependent calcineurin inhibition. Transplantation Proc. 26,
Hemenway, C.S., K. Dolinski, M.E. Cardenas, M.A. Hiller, E.W. Jones, and J. Heitman.
vph6 mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae require calcineurin for growth and are defective

2833-2834, 1994.

in vacuolar H+-ATPase assembly. To Be Sumitted to Genetics.

PHS 398 (Rev. 9/91)

(Form Page 6 Page
50664551

FF

Number pages consecutively at the botsom throughout the application Do noi use suffixes such as 3a, #