BOULDER DATLY CAMERA
Nov. 27, 1994

Areastores

stung

for cigarette sales

By MARK BABIONE
For tha Dplly Camera
nors.
kids.
ku,

referring to the Increased enforce-
Ausuad Tor selling tobacco. to. m!
tried 3 Anq. Te cigarelles. The

mont.

Boulder police stung 11 busi Store clerks unlucky enoupbto
nesses Chis week during 8 craçk. getcaught 9 suec summons-
down on selling cigarettes 01 mi to appoar u court. Tho maximum
The sting. conducted on the eve horis a 00zs. fina.
of the American Cancer Soclety's THB Supa involved two tcams.
Great Ameriçan Smokeout, wras in- Fach included a uniformed 'offcer.
tended to educate clerks that ir's il- a piain clothes acer and two
legal to sell tobacco producte to Fairviow High Schoo girts, Who
Police targeted gas stations 0d5 .s!s parenis signed a waiver al-
vénience, drug, grocery. and dise lowing them lo Take pariininc.op:
Tay tas never teeri enforced, said The juvenlles wero tojd not to
Jopinog Policc Oficer Mary Man plead with, or beg the clerk to sell
"We're letting the stores know had to show identification.

count "saJ01s mun, recently the eration.
this is going to happen," ahc sald,

the cigarettes. and, If asked. they
(Sce BOULDER Page 3C)

Boulder police sting stores
for cigarette sales to minors
At the Conoco station, 8000 2020 Broadway, pegan 01 cry
281h SL, one of the giris asked when she was ialed a Gum,
the cashiar for a pack of Mart mons, oys caid Ohg wzs a stu
boro Lights. Oficer Rob Hauke- dent ao couidn asord tre
ness, In plain clothes, poos in court Costs. Hankeness pot 01
iine-hahind her to witnese thç e103493 hor, saying she Mnos
A placard near the cash regis the Distriet Attorney to do cam
ter read, Pl ID my own mother. munity acrvice Instrad of paying A
clerk asked to see some identif- The clerks, not the store own
cation The buyer produced her ers or mnanugers, have to pay the.
she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'L do it to usund
cd at the license, act it down on stores or clerks, she said. "Al:
the counter. and sold her the though, when you acc clerks
Afler they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targcted r
stepped da and identified him aloros and clerks t bur four
sell as a police officer. Manka recelved summonses.
came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wook'a
rrarA I see them ask for an year. Tha Airst sting, condueted
E I think they're going to à in Scptember, targeted 16 stores
fuse the cale," Haukeness sald. and 97 Cierks received Rum:

(From Page 1C)

The clerk af Colony Market,.

transaction.

Atquard work out a deal-with.

No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the fne,
driver's license, which shownd court costs.

cigarettes.
summons.

ing, you mnight think otherwise kis -
was the.
operation
sccund tobacco sale sling This

"But they never do."

manges.

0949905503