Genetic Epidemjology 5:265-275 (1988)

Estimating Genetic Parameters of Survival
Distributions: A Multifactorial Model

Joanne M. Meyer and Lindon J. Eaves

Department of Human Genetics, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond
For a number of genetically influenced illnesses, age of onset is correlated between
relatives. le some cases, age of onset also serves as an index of an individual's
inherited liabiliry to an ilness. Typically, survival models for age of onset distri-
butions do not allowr for these effects. We have used the gamma distribution as the
basis of - model which specifies genetic variabiliry in age of onset. Specifically,
we aliow the hazard frequency parameter of the gamma distribution 10 ly a
monoionic function of an individual inherited liabiliry i0 an illness. Simulations
under various gamma models indicate that age of onset correlations may be
strikingly different from correlations ls liability. Maximum likelihood estimation
procedures were vsed to obtain parameter estimates from simulated data sets and
to deiermine whether lt le possible to discriminate between gamma processes of
different order. the resulus for 1,000 pairs of twins (500 monozygotic and 500
dizygotic) gave parameter estimates that were fairly accurate but that decreased is
precision as the order of the gamma process increased. We discuss the effect Chis
may have on inferences made about age of onset.
Key words: age of onset correlations. survival models. gamma distribution

INTRODUCTION

Genetic analyses of illnesses and behaviors showing a variable age of onset
require a knowledge of the cumulative probability of onset by given ages. Some
approachès [Weinberg. 1915; Stromgren, 1938; Risch, 1983) derive this probability
from prior age of onset distributions. Others (Elston, 1973; Heimbuch et al., 1980;
Risch, 1983) estimate parameters of a cumulative age of onset distribution from the
data. When the data allow Ls use, the latter method le more appealing since
Reccived for publication January 11, 1988; revision accepied April 22, 1988.

specific

Address reprint request te Joanne Meyer, Department of Human Geneties. Bos 33 Medical College of

Virginia, Richmond, VA 23298.
1988 AJan R. Liss, Inc.