100 East 3 Avanve Now York, Mav York 1C028 Tefophone (212) C28-6300
Foundation
OFFICERS AND BOARD OF TAUSTEES Davie J Mahoney, Chairman Presidant Nonan Sinan, Ine. Emest L Wynder, M.D., Prerident Thomas J. Ross, 4 Sacratary Vice Presiden: Amarican Airlines, Inc- Warner o Cosgrova. Jr. Treasurer Manaçing Partner Shieics A Company Trustees: Louis V. Aronson, = Prasident Ronsen Corporation Mirs. Chanes A Dana Frederie C Dacker Presicent Dacker Communicatiens, ine Walter Senior E. Panner Hansas Poat, Marwick, Matchall - Ca. George James, M.D, Dean The aunoy Sinai School of Medicine walliam J. Levint Chairan ot the Soard Lovitt & Sons, Ine. G. walism Meore Prasicent Fieidarest MIlis, Inc. Jesean MA. Munha Presicest Sandgran & Munha, Ine. Maxwall Robant R. M. Pauley Ribb Partner Stroack & Strosck a Lavan Davie L Dav'es. Frecutire vice Presicant Javits a Javits dencnal Counset
American Health
July 7, 1970
G. F. Todd, Esq. Tobacco Research Council Glen House, Stag Place London, S.W.1 England
Dear Mr. Todd:
In recent talks with Dr. Carl G. Baker, Director of the National Cancer Institute, the desirability of forming an international study group concerned with research into tobacco and health problems behalf of your organization to participate in this The proceedings will aim at providing the relatively few active investigators in tobacco. and health research programs with an opportunity to discuss freely current and future research programs with the intent of reaching common objectives more quickly. The dnozb will be composed of investigators primarily involved in tobacco and health research oriented towards producing less harmful smoking products. The partici- pants must be both willing and able to share with other investigators what is being learned from their current activities and openly discuss plans for future research in the field. It is thought that by bringing such a group of experts together to review ongoing studies and to plan future investigations jointly less harmful tobacco products will be available sooner and costly research projects will not be duplicated unneces- sarily. The meetings would be held at yearly intervals with the different organizations acting as host.
letter
invite on you
was discussed. This
is to
information and study group.
- . d6
