- Chroe Dis Val. 38. No. 1. PP 17-26. 1985 Priased in Great Bntain All rights reserved
0021.904 85 53 8 00 Copyright C 1985 Pergamon Pess Lid
PSYCHOSOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ADOLESCENT SMOKERS BEFORE THEY STARTED SMOKING: EVIDENCE OF SELF-SELECTION A PROSPECTIVE STUDY CARL C. SELTZER and FRANK W. OECHSLI Peabody Muscum. Harvard Lniversity. Cambridge. MA 03138 and the Child Health and Developmeat Studics, School of Public Hcalth, University of California. Berkeley.
CA 94720, U.S.A. (Recninnd is rised forne 17 dayust 1984)
Abstract Evidence of noncomparability of self-formed smoker and nonsmoker groups of adolescents from the Chald Health and Development Studies of the University of Califomia. Berkeley. wa1 found E a study of antecedent psychosocial characteristics (observed at age 10) before the adoption of the smoking habit. With possible confounding factors controlled, eventual smokers showed significantly greater prevalence than nonsmokers of Type A personality traits. curaversion psychoticism. anger. and nestless sleep. Eventual smokers were lower in 1ocic econ omic itatus than nonsmokers. and alsa eshibited significantly lower mean scores for the Raven Progressive Matrices and Peabody Picture Vocabulary lesis For cach trait. the trends of the fata were consistent in boys and giris Since many of these traits are shown to "track into adult life ahere they are then rdated to coronary heart discase. the role of self-sckction requires further consideration in causal inferences ahout smoking und coronary heart discase
INTRODLCTION
IN RECENT years, many published studies have shown an association that suggests a role for psychosocial factors in the pathogenesis of CHD [. 2]. In the Framingham Study. univariate and multivariate analyses showed a positive relationship of certain psycho- social factors to CHD and also to cigurette smoking [3- 5). The pervasive question of temporal precedence and a priori self-sclection still requires further clarification. however. In the absence of controlled experiments. the effects of cigarette smoking on health have been inferred from observational studies that compare persons who smoke with nonsmokers. le these comparisons. the disease outcomes are assumed to occur in cohorts of smokers and nonsmokers who were initially similar in all relevant characteristics except for the difference in smoking habit. Very little evidence has been available. however. to The unique data of the Child Heaith and Development Studies (CHDS) of the University of Califomia. Berkeley. provide un opportunity to check this assumption by examining antecedent characteristics associated with teenage smoking [6-8]. The CHDS is a prospective investigation of children from birth to late adolescence At various stages of their development, the children were examined SE to their biological, social. and in this report. we have analyzed the antecedent psychosocial characteristics of a large cohort of boys and girls before some of them later began cigarette smoking as teenagers. Reprint requesis should be addressed to: Frank w. Olechsli. Child Health and Deselopment Studies, This project was supported ia Grant 1447 from the Peahody Muvcum Harsard Linisersity
verify this assumption.
personality status. as well as environmental and familial influences.
2131 University Ave.. Berkelev, CA 94704, = :
a 34/1-
17
