-
SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H. complains associaed with the sick building syndrome
ASHRAE a SOEH Member ABSTRACT
et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43 questionnaire The sympioms were more common e bild-
In e cross-sectional investgarion in one building. office buildings built over the last 05 years with a validased wene measured 8 a lincar analog scale questionnaire. sfur where the ventilation system also provided cooling and Ar the same dime. the micro-environme (envirormental humidification, imrespective of the age of the buildings. A charactericics in the breaching zone I chan anes direct relationship between the level of complaints and air samyples) - characierized by measuring empenenere, quality parameters -s not described. Skov et a (1967) es- relacive hamidiry, respirable suspended periculares, ar amined indoor air quality symptoms ls 14 modern I bon dioxide, noise level, lighaing inensiry, nelaciwe kar to halls and - older control buildings. A I of symp midiry, and airflow. No relarionship E seen berween com -as related 01 "feecing" factor (carpets, upholsery. dhe degree of sympioms and age. educarion. or dunstion and horirontal surfaces) sad the "macro-moleculer compo- of employment e the building or aime spent in che budld- nent" of dust. They aiso demonstrated . relationship berween S on a daily basis. Starisaically, complaine TE the oumber of hours spent photocopying and using carboniess significandly more freguent among smoking m. Envi- anpy paper and the kevel of complaints. Other srudies have ronmental characieristics associased $ che incroased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Seellman et a 1985) complaint levels in chis group included decreesed airflow and prychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) cootribute models, chene - an association berween respinsble as- cause of complaints le the sick building syndrome bs # pended particaulases and the levels of boch maCoaE me- suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et bnane and sysemic complaints. Sarisfaction wisk dhe al. (1985) wEre unable so demonstrate any measurable dif. thenal exvironment as prediced by percepcion of $ ferences ls the concentrations of eaviroamental pollutants & no clearly coneribuse a che degree of sympiom, berween rooms ls a mechanically and a naturally ventileted alshough regression models & 1 dar complaint building. They srudied the rooms with the # comp MEnE nOf independent of dheal parameers. Liphaing rates and used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did I inaensiry a also associated $ complaints. 1 strate a relationship between symproms and both ares - mdies of phe $ building syndrome should examine ples measuring dust and . "macro-molecular fraction. apain
a
velociry and increased kevels of respirable suspended & to indoor air quality complaints
sicslases 3 dry-bulb empenanre. In regression
Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
mahiple erposres simulaneoualy and inchude prycho- in area samples. I measres a idenaify predictors of complaint in
Area samples ls buildings may not le representative of the exposures le different points in single rooms. Pysical charscteristics such a windows and partitions, computers. and shelving may influence air currents. Radiant heat may different exposure charsacteristics than the macro-enviroe
indoor I INTRODICTION
Complaints sermed the € building syndrome" have lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally. mos t led to numerous investigations in the last 15 year. They are hutants resukt from point sources, 0E they will be diluted a thought to occur primarily ls newty constructed oflice # subject  farther removed from the soarce. A micro A ings and, at least in the past, were thought to be due to viroament around desks and within cubicles may have very wide variety of csuses have been identifed le specific settings. ment o building. la addition. all applied occupational and including inadequate temperature and relative bumidiry 8 environmental health rescarch that attempes to relate dose so trol, noise, lighting. vibration. volatiie organic compounds heakh effects I from the problem that I . penerally and formaldehyde. microorpanisms, eaviroamental sobecco measured ee several poiats in time and then extrapolated to smoke, pesticides, i entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications aer decadies spent and contaminated air and boiler I fibers reicased * most health eflects are messured as . # resak o from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sampling A group of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of sympsoms may change not merely trom et al. 1984) suppested that these complaints -ne related pri- day so day but from hour to hour. such a stratepy must fail. (Robertson et al. 1985) -s unable to identify diflerences in attempsed to characterire air-qualiry parameters in the micro- wet-bulb globe temperature, dry-bulb temperarure (semper eaviroament and set these characteristics in relation o a ature). relative humidity. air velocity, formaidehyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at . given point in I This itive or nepative ons between several rooms in . building report presents results of cros-sectional investigation of with narural and a building with mechanical ventilacion, problem building using . self-administered. lincar analosg. where both sets of rooms had high leveis of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom E I a Aaiuant Prolessor of Medicine and ol lndustrial and Emviroamental Heakth Sciences at the Univerty of Fieburgh School of Medicine and Publc Heahh. P. Cellesy a Director. Environmestal Heakth aod Salery. Camepie-Mellon University. Pirtsburgh. FA.
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Nevertheles,
(Kreiss and Hodpson 1964; Hodgson and Kreiss 1966). marily o1 mechanical ventilation. A I poup of authors
results la greater than the difference la averge samples, and No investigations in a peer-reviewed litersture have
3451
