LOS ANGELES TIES
Los Angeles, Californin
October 20, 1954
n been proved,
Sale
Lniversity

hairl uudn the premine that binatinn n a partirular tvpe
nanectinn hetw en rica in each nf - ree categaries
rer smokingand disease ha: has alrcady produced a safe
Might Take Sis Months one it is. so a can be made
Dr. 3 Cuyler Hammond that way. 16 not, the research
who was in charge ol the most Dr. Carence Cnok Litte,
complete statistical study to chairman af the scientific ad-
date, said tba: "some AS S4e sisnre bnard and seient'fic di
should wait for more defini rector a the Toiarne Indas.
ing a safe cigarette, bus no ies which he helieves wnalir
nnn has said just what the da prndiure some nf "the defni
finitive eviience wnuid be." Tive evidence" In weleh Dr
He sasd ha "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In nse a 1n thhe Ameriran "We wiil Tarkle simuitan
ssstem wa more important, Lne of the industrv's remearch
migh: prnve surcessful in aix de not hasn todav Ihn
months, irh luck. he said. mental evidener that 1 -- prr

cigarette IE so. seientific re-
search should prove which
should find one, "since
ple like to smoke cigarettes.
iry Research Committee. de
seribed the outlines nf siud-
Tackle Uinknawns

Expert Calls
Safe
Cigarelfes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming

for

atatistician

-oad

tive evidence before develop-

NEW YORK Ort. 19 4ILP) this viewnoint.

The rvidence connecting cig- Cancer Snciety meeting. e cously mans nf the unknowns
arette smoking with b nt h Hammon sairt the relation- in this field of tobaccn 11n in
lung rancer and heart dis. ship nf rigarette smoking to relation to human health. he
case is "overw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the oui
something should be done at from the standpoint ol public program. "We seek definitive
once abour developing "a safe health, than the relationship findings in ue area where
cigarette - d leading statisti- to lung cancer. 1 program to much suggestive sork has
cal scientist told the annual find e safe eigarette" from heen done. The program nf
meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard reongnizes tha: 1 a
tihe advisory board of the There are various types nl garding e caure anri cPers
Tobacen Industry Research tnhacen, there are varings relationshmn hetween rrv r-
Committee annnunced some of types n fiters, anr these are mental factors includ n .
Ie details nf Etis seientifig rE sarinia terhn'ques n! curing The mot important
srarch prngram * hich is tobaren, he Rair. and : may set up was a dinres *div nrneet ni

Cancer

experi-

Soclety today.
At the same time the scien-

Outlines Deseribed

mit scientific conclsyons PA.
smnkine and lune cancer
lung cancer rases -
10 medical centers 173 e : n T
ed States and Canada.

he thar snme fortuitans mm- eurrent
Las ANGELZS EXAMINER
los Ange les, California
October 20, 1954

It wi1l inelude numerous
studies of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers.
se well as tests On animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. à apecifie research
grants, financed the
wrill be announced later.

HEALTH STUDY
NO

TOBAGCO
NKW YORK. Oet. 19- *
A broad sbe point study seek
ing lnowledge whether eigarets
or other forms of tobacco canse
lung cancer or other health haz.
ards was announced today.
It is the first announcement
of big research prokram
headed by the selentifie ad.
visory board of the Tobacco In
dustry Research Committen

à TIRC,

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062