48

Peptide Hormones. Growth Factors. and
Soma H (ed): Placentz Bassc Research for Clinscal Applicauon.
Int. Conf. on Placenta, Tokyo. 0661 Basel. Karger, 1661 pp 105-114
Isolation of a Xenobiotic Metabolizing
Cytochrome P-450 (P-450soK) with
No Aromatase Activity from Placental
Microsomes of Both Cigarette-Smoking and
Yoshio Osawa, Tadayoshi Higashiyama, Kenji Shimizu'.
Endocrine Biochemistry Depanment, Medical Foundauon of
Buffalo Rescarch losutute. Bufalo. N.Y., USA

Placental Proteins

Nonsmoking Mothers
Noburaka Yoshida'

COPY

FILE

The presence of different monooxygenase activities has been docu-
mented in human placental microsomes. The predominating cyrochrome P-
450, that of androgen aromatase, catalyzes the biosynthesis of estrogens [1).
Aromatase P-450 has been the object of numerous studies to determine its
mechanism of action and to purify it [2, 3). Gough et al. [4) reported the
presence of another enzyme system which catalyzes the hydroxylation of
xenobiotic substances. It has aiso been reported that a placental cytochrome
P-450 le responsible for the hydroxylation of benzola)pyrene via aryl hydro-
carbon hydroxylase lL-sl The low content of the responding cytochrome P.
450 in human placenta and instability during purification have made it
difficul to isolate any other active P-450 enzyme. As a side benefit sained
from our procedure to purify and characterize catalytically active aromatase
P-450 lel we found a fraction from the immunoaffinity chromatograph)
which showed a high level of xenobiotic activity with little contaminating
aromatase activity. Through the use ofconventional purification procedures,
we obuined a xenobiotically active P-450 with no aromatase activity.
Previous studies on aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity have demon-
surated higher levels of this activity in smokers but not in nonsmokers 'gl 16
'Postdocioral Researcb Fellows on leave from the Deparment of Obsteings and

Gynecology, Okayama University Medical Senool. Okayams. Japan.

PUBLICATIONS

028242