F/PP

T

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Mew Yek Times Serviey

wan bought 5.1 billion American American cigaretie promotioo about 80 New Taiwan dollars .
made cigarettes last ysar, ringing became an issue even in recent pack (9828) compared with 22

TAIPET The Marlboro cow- up sales of 6115 million. le 9861 trade talks between the United New Taiwan dollars (79 cents)for
boy in his white hat, digarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Suaics and Taiwan. Wang Chicn- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes Dow hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis
tomm. His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs. registered # ing bs Japan are more liberal, Com-
guitar-playing. jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted give out goto free cigarettes and gifts, an aggressive campaign Television
This frenetic, fast-growing aa cigarette exports last year, primari- teschers told me that junior high lawod in the United Suates in 1971.
tion of nearly 20 million pcopie ly because both Taiwan and Japan school students - 12, i3 yoars old Cigarette packages sold in Japan
amoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-suandiog restrictions. are Dow smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry labcl that,
year and for the first time, : According to the Brown & Wu- rette companica promote cigaretics roughly traoslated, says, "For the
rubstantial number of them were liamsoo Tobecco Corp. exporta ol like that? Ic's O.K. to have them sake of health. don't smoke too
Made la America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets, We en- mucb" waring much milder
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. ro joy $16 billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $i uomsg in Dew sales the. United States. But those people mandaied in the United States.
Wacturers have essentially intro- In. Japan, which has . population are juat like robbers. M you are A Tbe companies :y Amencan

and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest,

panies can advertise on TV after

001 this city, next to posters % - peroent.
a of Winston cigarettes.

KyL. amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting

for most of the growth is American he said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-

of 120 million and where people

duced cigaretie advertising to the
tbe American companics of entic
ing teen-agers a tke da smoking.
a charge the American companics
operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992.
the cigarette market bad not adver-
tised, altbough : does now.
The government agreed to allow
.prosrure from Washington. In the alcohol.
year since stiff resirictions o0 for.
8 cigarettes WETE dropped.
have soared, generating much-
sfacturens = . time when sales in
the Unitod Suates ane down
and tbe number ol anti-smoking
laws is way 'dn

'urtu - human being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taivan

ialand, and tbat has created furor smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year that.
Government oflicials bave accused imports have more than tripled E

noj 0E much beczuse of the adver
tising as because they are of better
quality and taste better. American
with the way ae cigaretier ane made of blended to-
and bacco and have less tar than Tai-

the past year. The market share d0 Amcrican cigarette manufactur-
a
American cigarettes increased 8 E vigorously deny there any-
more than perceat last year, thing wtong
they
frons 3 percent in 1986, aod the promoting their products s4y
Department of Agriculture pro - thry have no pians to change theu wancse cigarettes,
Tbey are not aloved to advertise
television newapapers Nor
Taiwan officiak say they resent o0
oE la
American pressure to open their have they pusbed todo 10, they s4y,
markets to producta that éndanger They can advertise only througb
5 small storcs where cigareties are
sold, as well a
sales "This really burts our feelings.
through promo-
said Jaw Shzu-kong a
tions. Cigarette manulacturers may
zines, ol whosc giroulation acl-
cach
axport to Taiwan? Younger
don cxooods 200,000.
and femalcs are
a lot
Before last
forcign ciga-
smoking
yoar,

young attractive
cent o tbe market. Taiwan im
po-ak-61 girls
immonal.
As reswlt, umported cigaretie cost

10

whicb are not

botly deny.

The soreameiadsiniverd dicts that it could grow to 9 to 20 sales pitch.

blended.

others into the business oaly under pcople's health. like cigarettes aod posiers hung ncar cigarette racks of
a American cigarettes in Taiwan n.. tbe United Sustes docs legisiator. not en- also place 120 ada a ycar in mARA-

peadod growth for American man- courage its people to amoke, why

way

causc of American ada. They hire rettes accouatod for lcas phan per-
wearing short skirts d& give . cig- posed strict quotas on foreipn
and then it becomos a habit. IC' cigaretter and iaposed stin tariffs.

According to the U.S. Depart- arettes froe in nightclubs K's a cigarettes, banaed imporis at the
asedt o Agrioulture, people in Tai- difficult for young boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed to sell

0/4/9000SZ

-
-