WIACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRIBUNE
D. 25,605
S. 49,326
WACO METEOPOLITAN AREA
HAR S 1963

F.C Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard- Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission frons going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarcttes are legal merchandise, It
does not scem right or logical that ono medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer w hile
newspapers, magazines, billboards and cou nte 1
displays are allowad to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
Junp 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC said it is proposing to refuse Jicenses
0 broadcasters who carry cigarette advertisice
becauso of evidence that smoking is injuriour to hcalth
and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public
intercst. 'This - nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bipger than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals to do
as they please so long as they doa't harm ancther.
Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that : you don't mention something. maybe it won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democrat, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com-
merce Commitice, snid in reference to the proposed
FCC rule that the ngancy had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has
any righit 0) tell an advertiser what he could not
say in Jis advertisements, Rogers said Congress will
take a close Icok: 1t the whole question of repulations
on television and radio advortising content, not only
85 to the Federal Communications Commission but
in vegard to Federal Trade Commission practices as
The stakes invalved estend beyond the business
of broadcasling. They go to the hcart of whether
government burcaus Pinoys he allowed to go beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Heulth."

hurt you and wi)l disappear.

67
9822T804

well.

the limits of dus proccss and thc law,