HK32228112
SASTA :A : - : -

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIECO

:

14% € P

: - : 5.
5 a
MPAKTME / : sV.
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willian H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Research Toundation
715 Muir Lands Visto Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. Fishman:
and Salk.

: 5 - 11M.SIS A

à

We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolia resch rch cocunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founr ation and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzsaes
should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at uCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnnent of - focal center for research proorams on oncodeyelopmenta
prublems is particularly ieely. It will be o! g-vat potential importance for
pulling togetter vork, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation,
characteriztaion and deternination of the sipnificance of hurian Oncodevelcpmental
antigens such as alphafvtoprotein and carcinowmbryonic antigens.
One of the goals of the work in nur laboratory is to determine the relationship
of increased serusa concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinogen
exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and nouse model svstess clearly derion-
strate tne L anirals pasocixo to hepatocarcinoyens have clevated serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developrant of slionant Luers. It is hoped that, systeratic
study of hunan sera frum differert sources will determing if serus AFF concun-
In addition, the role of env Tomestal factors such as hormoal influences on
the production of oncodeyclopmental gene prh.is can be further explored in
different sy: tens. Such data fugplics tha! (he prod:u tion of oicocavelopmental
gene producis by tursor cells is net a fixed property of a given tunoir but is
We look fonrard to vorkinn with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the important subjert of oncodeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinones exposure.

Subject to environmçrstal controls.

expression.
Best regards,
Stewart Sell, H.D.
Professor
SS/nb