CAR ard
CELL REGULATION, Vol. 2, 373-381, May 1991
Activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors inhibits cell cycle progression of small cell
lung carcinoma
Carol L. Williams and Vanda A. Lennon Departments of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Immunology, and Neurology Mayo Clinic and Foundation Rochester, Minnesota 55905
model for studying the dysregulation of cell cy- cle progression. This highly metastatic tumor accounts for 25-30% o all lung cancers and causes >25 000 deaths annually in the United States (Birrer and Minna, 1989). SCLC cells ex- press receptors for several autocrine growth factors, including gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP, homologous to amphibian bombesin) (Cuttitta et al., 1985; Carney et al., 1987), insulin- like growth factor-I (IGF-1)(Macauly et al., 1988; Nakanishi et al., 1988b), and a transferrin-like molecule (Nakanishi et al., 1988a; Vostrejs et al., 1988). Activation of these receptors gen- gers, which must converge on a common point to induce SCLC proliferation. In addition to receptors for factors, some SCLC cell lines express musca- 1985; Williams and Lennon, 1990a) and nicotinio acetylcholine receptors (Maneckjee and Minna, 1990). The ability of acetylcholine receptors to regulate cell proliferation has recently been al., 1989; Maneckjee and Minna, 1990). Based on our finding that activation of M, muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (MAChR) causes hy- drolysis of phosphoinositides (PI) and inhibits voltage-gated 3 channel activity in SCLC cells, we proposed that MACHR activation may affect SCLC proliferation Williams and Lennon, 1990a). We report here that MAChR activation inhibits DNA synthesis induced by serum, bom- besin, insulin, or IGF-I in SCLC cells. MAChR agonists arrest SCLC cells in both S and G,/M pears to disrupt a common event induced by transduction by growth factor receptors. mAChR activation decreases DNA synthesis cells cultured in serum (Figure 1). This inhibition
We prevlousty reported that activation of musca- rinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChR) of M, subtype causes hydrolysis of phosphoinositides and inhibits voltage-gated 3 channel activity la small cell lung carcinome (SCLC) cells. We now report that MAChR activation couses exponentially growing SCLC cells concomitant with a decrease in DNA synthesis. Cell cycle progression and DNA synthesis resume when down-regulated In serum-starved SCLC cells, mAChR activation inhibits DNA synthe- like growth factor-1. The finding that DNA synthesis is inhibited even when mAChR are activated after exposure of cells to growth factors indicates that decreased signal transduction by growth factor re- growth inhibition. Our data suggest that MAChR activation digrupts a common event that le induced by different growth factors and is fundamental for In normal cells, the transition from proliferation to terminal differentiation is marked by with- drawal from the cell cycle and an inability to reenter the cycle in response to growth factors. tion, but constitutively remain in the cell cycle; rupted (Heldin and Westermark, 1984; Wein- stein, 1987; Kraus et al., 1988). Small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) provides a clinically relevant Abbreviations: GRP, gastrin-releesing peptide; ICse hal- factor-i; MAChR, muscarinic acetylcholine receptors: PBS, phosphate buffered saline; PI, phosphoinositides; SCLC. o 1991 by The American Society for Cell Biology
to arrest in S and G,/M phases of the cell cycle, erates different intracellular second messen- sis Induced by serum, bombesin, insulin, or insulin- rinic (Sorenson et al., 1983; Cunningham et al., ceptors le not the mechanism of MACHR-mediated recognized (Conklin et al., 1988; Ashkenazi et
are mAChR
peptide growth
cell cycle progression. Introduction
Transformed cells do not undergo this transi- phases of the cell cycle. mAChR activation ap- the regulation of cell cycle progression is dis- different growth factors, which follows signal
Resuits
maximal inhibitory concentration; IGF-I, insulin-like growth by cells growing exponentially in serum
Carbachol decreases
PH-thymidine uptake by
small cell lung carcinoma.
373
