SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

et al. (1987) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43

In a cross-sectional investiganion in one building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validesed
complaints associaied with the "sick building syndrome questionnaire. The symproms were more common is build-
were mcasured on e linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system abso provided cooling and
Ar the same ame, the micro-environment (environmental humidification. irrespective of the ae of the buildings. A
characteristics s the brearhing zone rather then area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air
samples) a characterized by measuring "ammaadun quality parametens was not described. Skov et al. (1987) en-
relarive humidiry, respirable suspended particulases, car amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern 1
bon dioxide, noise level, lighzing inuensiry, relative a to halls and 14 older control buildings. à level of rymp
midiry, and airflow. No relationship a seen benvern I : related 01 . "feecing" factor (carpets, upholery
the degree of symptoms and age, educarion, or durasion and horizontal surfaces) ad the "macro-moleculer compo
of employment at the building or time spent s the build- nent" of dust. They also demonstrated . relationship between
àh om a daily basis. Staristically, complainas wre the oumber of hours spent photocopying and uing carbonless
significanty more frequent among Supous I Envi- copy paper and the leve! of complaints. Other studies bave
ronmental charecteristics associaled 1 a increased demonstrated thar ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985)
complaint levels in this group included decreesed airfow and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute
models, chere a an association berween respirable a- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome by I
pended particulases and the levels of boch mMCOt I suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertson et
brane and rystemic complaints. Sarisfaction wiah the F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif-
I environment e predicted by percepcion of dreft ferences is the concentrations of environmental pollutants
insensiry a also associeted 1 complaints. aane strate . relationship between symptoms and both ares
i of che sick building syndrome should examine ples measuring dust and . "mecro-molecular" fraction, a

-
-

velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended par a indoor air quality complaints.

ticulates and dry-bulb semperature. In 1
did not clearty contribute a the degret of sympton
alshough regression models PIP suggest dhar compl
were not independent of chermal paramesers.

Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
berween rooms ie a mechanically and a naturally ventilated
building. They studied the rooms with the I comp
I and used area samples. Skov et . (1987) t des
Area samples is buildings may not be representative of
the exposures le different points in I rooms. Physical
characteristics soch as windows and partitions, computers,
and shelving may infuence air currents. Radiant heat may

mulaiple exposures simulsaneously I 1 psycho- in area 1
social meanres o idenaify predictors of complaints in

indoor spaces.
INTRODUCTION

Complaints termed the E building syndrome" bave lead 01 uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally. most -
led to numerous investigations in the last 15 I They are hutants resuk from point sources, os they will be diluted -
thought to occur primarily e newty constructed ollice 1 subject la fartber removed from the source. The micro $
€ and, at keast in the past, were thought to be due to vironmens around desks and within cubicles may have very
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelem, . different exposure characteristics than the macro-enviroe
wide variery of causes have been identibed is specife I ment of a building. In addition. all applied occupational and
inchuding inadequate temperature and relative i 8 enviroamental bealth research that attempts 01 relate dose o
trol. noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds beakth effects suflers from the problem that dose la penerally
and formaldehyde. microorganisms, environmental tobecco measured at several points in time and then extrapolated 8
smoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicle exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decades
spent € contaminated air and boiler fumes. Abers released # most heakth effects are messured a . 1 1 of
from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronie exposures Where the variability of I
A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnepan where the level of symptoms Keu change not merely trom
et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri day o1 day but from hour to hour, 1 a strategy most 3
(Robertson et al. 1985) : unable to identify diflerences in attempted to characterize air-quality parameters in the micro
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb semperature (temper- environment and set these characteristics 9 relation o the
ature), relative humidity. air velocity. formaldehyde, or pos level of individual complaints at a piven point is I This
itive or negative ons between several rooms e . building report presents results of a croes- sectional investigation of a
with natural and a building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using . self-administered. linear I
where both a of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-amesment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
a I a Amaunt Prolenor of Medione ad ef Industrial and Enviroomental Heakh Sciences at the Univeruy of Prmsburgh School
of Medicine and Public Heahh. a I a Direcor, Environmental Heahh and Salery. Camepe-Mellon Univeruty, Pirtsburgh. PA

(Kreiss and Hodgson 1984; Hodgson and Kreiss 1986).
marily o1 mechanical ventilation The same proup of authors

results la greater than the difference in average samples, an
No investigations in the peer-reviewed literature have

S691