PKJ
Carcinagenesls vel 11 nu 12 "stce-izued 1OGI
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-3-ppridy0)-1-butanome and benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
C3420
chemopreventive agents
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Health Foundation. Valhalla NY 10595. USA
models examined o1 date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the A/I mouse because previous
The purpose of this study SEM to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemepreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to by 4-(methylnitrosamine)-1-03-pyrid,l)-l-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. Individually or in combination. Groups of female A/J mice to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastrie gavage (i-g-) or by has examined the chemogreventiva activities of a number of Intraperitonenl injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and 7.12-dimethylbenzlalanthracene (9.10). either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse 01 evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The i.g. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4.11.12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse can be replicated because it avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate the Injection site and associated mortality. A dose response (PEITC) is an effective inhibitor of lung tumnor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 rai (11,13). mice killed 9 or 61 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect to tobacco of 24 umol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke. which contains at least 40 carcinogens (I). The have been expeeted extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP. are important when given by the i.s route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either wcre complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP The most favorahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted 01 use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 umol of cach, administered in cight weekly smoking. in addition, the mode! should be relatively rapid and subdoses i.g, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore we exomined tumor yields obtained dosing. This regimen induced 10.5+4.4 lung adenomas upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen. 00 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethyl isothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to cach gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung prelimiaary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. Its purity wat establihed a HPLC as >997 BaP (93 purity), Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dirs containing Sa eomn oil as prev iously o play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups o 15 as summarized in Table L At age 7 weeks, each mouse wa kers suounng-1-GAp9.eesosresomupipsona)- (NNK*) treated by inraperitoneal (ip) injection or by intragastrie gavage tig) with carcinogen with organospeeificity for the lung all rodent dissolved in the o. E uned for treatment Injections and gavages were carried *Abbreslatlons: NNK. 4imabylainosamino) H-03-pyrdia,ur-l-tumnese indiwiduat dese was cee eighch of the sotal. Equimolar doses of NNK and Bot. benzojejpyrene: PEITC, pheneihyl isothiocyanale; BITC, benzyl BaP were wsed in most of the combination growps, because the amounts of
whlch these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP u! combination was establiched in the that BaP was more tumorigenic 01 the lung than NNK
Most previous studies in the A/ mouse have examined
Comparisons of
and BaP given individually showed repreventatives of the lung
in tobacco smoke (I1
PELR2
carcinogens
We sought 2 develop a model which could be used to
5.9 a 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse e V 0.001) and completely this study provlde a convenlent model for assessing the inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinocens
inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
NNK was synthesized in the American Heateh Foundation Organic Synthesis BITC 1989 purity) and PEITC (936 (Aund were abtained from the Aldrich Chemical Cempany (Milwaukee. Wij. Cottonseed oll wat parchaeed from Female AJJ mict. age 5 weeks. were obtoined from The Jackson Laborstory (Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the The design of the bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1. The mice were divided pulmonary the appropriate chemical in OI ml cononseed ol. NNK and BaP were borh out for 8 consecutive weeks. The toral doses ae given in Tuble Fseh NNK and total carcinogenie polycyelie hydrocarbons ia tobaceo smoke are
Sigma Chemical Co. (51 Louis, MO)
Introduction
agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
and benzolelpyrene (BaP) (I1) NNK is a isothiocyanait: ip. intriperitoncal, is, introgastric gavage.
(
o Oxford Unvenity Press
2721
