LOS ANAPLES TIES Los Angeles, California October 20, 1054 E been proved. Tale
haiml uudn the premise that hination n' a particular tvpe a nection hetween riea in each nf he three categnries Tei smoking and disease 2 has alrcadv produred a sale Might Take Six Months one i is, so all can be made Dr. E. Cuyler Hammond. that way. Ifnot. the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Carence Cook Litte. complete statistical study to chairman of the sciertific ad- date, said that "some say we vianry board and scient fie di tive evidence before develop try Resrarch Committee. de- ing a safe cigurette, but no ies which he helieves would nne has said just what the de produre some nf the defni finitive e idence wnu.d be." tive evidence' rn waich Dr Hr sand ha "took iasue' with Hammond referred. In his talk in the Ameriran "We wiil tackle
J1 S cigarette. seientifie re- search should prove which should And one, "since peo- ple like to smoke cigarettes." rector of the Tobarro Indus- seribed the outlines nf std- Tackle Unknewns
Calls Safe Cigaretfes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming
Expert for
I'niversity atatistician should wait for
more defini
NEW YORK. Ort. 61 (LP) thie viewnoint,
The rvidenre connecting cig- Cancre Society meeting. Dr eously manv of the unknowns simultan arette smoking with hath Hammond xaid the relation- ls this Eeld of tobaccn u1xe Us lung cancer and heurt dis- ship nf rigare:te xmoking to relation to buman health, a ease is "overw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitive onee about developing "a safe health, than the relationship findings in an area where cigarette." H leading statisti- to lung cancer 1 program to much suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find a safe cigarette from heen done. The nrogram nf meeting cf the American the viewpoint ef the heart the bnard recngnizes tha: we Tobacco Industrv Research tobacen, there are varinus relationshin hetween er ron Committer ansounced some oftypes of fiters, and there are mental factors, including the details nf LER sricatifie re varionx terhn'ques a curing The moat impertant
system was more important, line of the industrv's renearc: migh: prove surceasful in RIX do not have todav the experi months, wwirh luck," he said menta! evidence that : ner-
Cancer Society today At the xame time the scien- tife advisory board of the srarch program 14 d .h is he thar
Outlines Described There are various types C tobarcn, he Raid. and it may some fortustonis rom- 901 ANGELES EXAMINER Los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
mit scientifie eonclasnns PA. garding the and rfert rause sninking and lune cancer nrn.eet set un was a diree: udy 9 current lung cancer raset J 10 medical centers 1) :lie - . ed States and Canada,
It will include numerous studles of humans, including emotional habits of smokers, as well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspeets of the research were disclosed today. The specitio research grants, financed Aq the TIRC, aill be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY ON TOBACCO YORK, Oct. 19 * < bread abc poirt study seek ing iowledge whether eigareta or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards was announced today. It is the first announcement of a big research proxram headed A9 the sclentifie ad- visory board of the Tobacco In dustry Rese reh Committer
NEW
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
