WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRISUNE D. 25,605 S 49,326 WACO MATEOPOLITAN AREA MAR S 1963
F.C Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard-. Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission from going through with its proposed ban on radio and tolevision cigarette So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, It does not scem right or logical that one medium of advertising be forbidden the producer M hile newspapers, magazines, billboards and ou nter displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC sald 1l is proposing to refuse licenses 01 broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising because of evidence that smoking is injurious to hcalth and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals to do es they please so long as thcy doa't harm another. e also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if nok don't mention something, maybe it won't Congressman Paul Rogers, Hlorida Democret, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com- merce Com.mitice, said in reference to the proposed FCC rule that the ngency had overstepped the bounds of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has any right 01 tell an advertiser what he could not say in his advertisements, Rogers said Congress will take a close Icok at the whole question o! regulations on television and radio ndvortising content, not only as to the Federal Commumications Commission but in regard to Fcderal Trade Commnission practices as The stakes involved extend beyond the business of broadcasling. They go to the heart of whether government burcaus should he allowed to go beyond
advertising.
Hazardous to Your Health."
hurt you and will disappear.
well. :
tho linits of due proccss and the law.
