DALLAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Texas April 14, 1954
Tobacco Firms Ask New Cancer Studies representing growers and tobacco tional" statements linking smoking Among those quoted by the com- and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer Inatitute of the United States Gov- relationship ef ernment, which said in a 1953 E cigarettes and bealth and called port that the cause of caneer for exhaustive research to estab- had not been established. lung Several lish the basie cause of the disease. of the institute's scientists also The tobacco industry research were cited, Others quoted were the Damon issued a booklet cotr Runyon Fund, which taining previously published state- more research, and called for Chicago à thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgeon Dr. Max who Cutier, doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons may by olher cancer experts that tobac- develop lung cancer partly because of smoking but that to accept the The earliest, whitten ln 1923, said conclusion of a direct there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientific relationship none that would produce turnors. hazardous." and The most recent, dated last March F smoke in the 16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of lungs wert a be done before causes of lung can- have had it long 'ose cancer, the we'd all cer or any other kind of cancer quoted Dr. Clarence Cookk report Littie, The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratory, Bar Har- S January to combat mounting bor, Maine. charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the up of nearly every major cigarette University of Texas School of Medi- manufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Inaur
NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers. alded picture of the committee ments by itles co causes lung cancer.
e can established.
director of the Roscoe B. Jackson ance Company and British author itles, Neariy alt those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until an absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report was described by an industry spokesman as an "in- terim" statement, pending an- nouncement of the choice of a prominent scientist to supervise basic cancer research de be f- nanced by the industry. That scien. tist will decide how the industry' a cancer-research money is to be spent. No date has been set for his selection. At the Jast count, the committee said; there were more than 850 cancer research grants in the United States alone, "any one of which might produce unlock the evidence to secrets of lung cancer,
