Val 285 No. 23
EDITORIALS
1317
The New England Journal of Medicine Official Organ of The Mossachusetts Medlical Society the NEw EXGLAND JOURNAL or MEDICINE AND SURGERY and continued in 1828 as Vol. of the BoSTON MEDICAL AND SURGICAL JOUANAL PUBLISuES WEEKLY BY THE COMMTTTEE Ox PUBLICATIONS or THK MARSACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY Claude E. Welch, M.D., Chninaan Joseph Garland, M.D., EDITOR EMEarTus Franz J. ingelfinger, M.D., EDITOR ASSOCIATE Entroas George S. Richardson. M.D., Boos Reviews Robert O'Leary, ASSISTANT EDITOR EDITORIAL BOARD
ACTION ON ASBESTOS AsNESTOS workers are unintentional victims of industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary fibrosis, pleural calcification, mesotheliomas and lung cancer, Asbestos exposure is now involving nor only air but also wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex- posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or ferruginous bodies may be, there de no doubt that electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers ease in the general population at this time, the presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing. Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by most chemical and physical means and can foat freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods. Asbestos discases have a long latent sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must be made now, on the basis of "reasonable probabili- ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition of dose-response relations, These thoughts are reinforced by the work of
Founded ie 1812 as
widespread, drinking water,
Alexander Marble, M.D. Samuel Proger, M.D.
Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al- Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-
20 period,
Jane F. Desforges, M.D. Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.
Ronald A. Mait, M.D.
Arnold L. Smith, M.D, years or more. We therefore believe that more
Robert E Johnson, M.D. Norman 2 Levinakv, M.D. Francis D. Moore, M.D Charies A. Sanders, M.D, Jerome H. Shapiro, MD Ronald A. Arky, M.D. Dana L. Farnnworth, M.D.
John W. Littefield M.D. Murphy and associates in this issue of the Journal Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, (p 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in Louis Weinstein, M.D, new ship construction include better than usual John R. David, M.D. exposure data and indicate a high incidence of as- Edward A Gaensler, M.D. bestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-
Howard Bleich, M.D,
Isadore N. Rosenberg, MD. Milion C. Paige, 5 BUSINESS MANAGER manuscript, including references, should
tions. A second study of Murphy et al. reports two cases of pleural disease (one mesothelioma) in workers who sanded asbestos foor tiles. Since the
AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Jour. degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au- anl should consult "information for Authors, This material thors simulated the working conditions and found may be found in the frat issue of every volume of the Jour- concentrations of 1.3 Abers per milliliter of room nel, or it may be obrained from the Jeumal office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of space, and all material, including figures, should Mre submit- used threshold limit values. A fiber per milliliter of CASE REPORTS, usually published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 10* Abers every gence' section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled
be
double
currently figures suggest that has called for control
ted in duplicate.
room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per an alarming number will still accumulate over a 10- A recent Committee report prepared by A Nation- asbestos emissions at the source and for protec- The report also calls for further rescarch on the
reference to articles reporting closely related cases A very Abers remains in the short case report or a description of a technic submicted as a "Bxicy RrcoRDIxe" should be limited to 500 words, MATERLAL prinsed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period. cine is covered by copyright, The Journal does not hold itself responsible for statements made by any contributor. NOTICES should reccived be day, 24 days before date of publication. cles published Requests should be sent to the author. imply endorsement by the Joural, Arbor, Michigan 48106. chusetts 02113,
these lung, panel
al Academy of Sciences
not later than noon on Mon- of
.
REPRINTS: The fournal does not stock reprints of the ar- tion of those who are exposed in their occupations. ALTHOCGH all advertising material accepted k expected to biologic effects and the physica! characteristics of conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance docs not asbestos fibers; such data are urgently needed "if a SUBSGRIPTION PxICES fworldwide): $15.00 per year (student, range of safe exposure is to be established with interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates are m U.S. fundsonly, confidence." Although we endorse these recommen- MICROTILSE volumes available to regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for through University Microfilms, 315 N. Firse Street, Ann technical controls based on existing COMMUNICATIONS shouid be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as- land Journal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects
knowledge.
on cells and tissues are important and must be con-
