True-False Questions on the Chenistry and Paychophyslology of Odor and Flevor 1 TI Sone nodern workers suggest that nccurate mensurement of vibratlonal frequency (in the far infrared, for exanple) of an unknown odorant will permit prediction of its quallty and intenslty. - No elenentel substance, not even halides or ozone hos any odor; Instead they react with the nucose forning new products whlch are smel Iled; but T Sone odorents have steric or vibrational propertles which force the cone luslon that they are odor less whon they are not. Present evldence strongly suggests thet different parts of the ol factory receptor ares, IIke the retina in the eye, are qua ilty-spocific. F Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor T No one yet has a fire clue as to the criticol relation between the molecule nnd the receptor which permits en odor perception. T The greater tie secretion rate of euco .  or sellve, the h gher their 'ued and both pHl and temperature Influence the quallty of sensation in the 111. - The ideal Instrumentel detector would respond to odors in the sone quantitetive range as does an en Ima or human subject. TF Such en Ideat detector hes not been developed. Iv. - de Ian observors with head In fixed position can by virtue of the two Indopontent nostrils eesiiy discern sterco suol effects, 1.e. they can tell whiother ne odorant is at the right or left hand, sunh 6s one uses his tuo ears In locating the source of a sound. - For certaln musk-liko compounds, forty molecules are sufficient to trigger 4 hunon offact ory response. Adaptation to nne olfactory Qun lity does not significant ly reduce sensitivity to any other dissiel lar quality, but does reduce sensi tivity to all sinllor quelities. A By employing a alallerities nethod of conparing qualities, one con now obtein Ident ity and degroes of difference without recour se to trohlo- vi 1 Hunger lowers thresholds sllghtly to some food qualit ies but not for - it le now possible to ldentlfy the Intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull sieply by expert examination of the electrophysiological record taken from appropriate ofor or taste neur rons. T Electrical stimulation of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkaling" quality. TF Direct electrical stimulatlon of the olfactory sense has nover yet beon Successfully accompllshed. VII. TF Although total anosala is rare In humans and ageusia even rarer, there is evidence that in analogy to color vision deficiences, some people are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities whi le having noreal sensitlvlty to others. TF Toplcal anesthetlcs applled to the rongue show that different qualities TF Certaln endocrine disense entitles make = possible for sone people quite sensitively to "snell" such "odor less' subistances es sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both teste and odor can be reduced to noreal by manipulation of endocrine levels. TF e enenopausa wonon at the tIme of ovulation fInd certaln odors extrese ly disegreeable whlle at other times In the menstrual cycle these same odor
sone elements possess teste.
I1.
sur face In order to be see led.
chenicn! senses.
V.
sose words. others.
of taste dis sappear 1 different rates.
they  Judge quite pleasant.
ori
