RAP

MERICAN JOURNAL OP
Public
Health

Editorial
Volume 77, Number *
AMred I MD. MPH

May 1907 Established 1911

EDITOR Less Hazardous Smoking and the Pursuit of Satistaction
Cigareltes deliver drugs: al root smoking n drug laking Scieniho wurk has
confrmed nicotine as - powerfully reinforcing. psychoac tive drug Fol the consum
ASSESTANT FOITOS er. then, ukra low-yicid cigareties raise, the simple issue uf Jrug cullang un
I 1 I DPH adulteration The unspisfactoriness of ultra low yiekdcigarenes n een enthe 5 en dy
of customers fur these peoducts even in health conse us Calfornia As nuted 14
Maron and Fortmann in this issue of the Journal, only - * PE cent ol smukcrs an -
ROITORIAL BOARD population based sample smuke cigarcties in the rangsol 0 lu mg na - ld
Mary F. I DPH (1987) 2mg "lar Despne the publicay about dinscase nsks of smuking and the widepre -
Chairperson belief that ultra lane Pa cigarettes are less hazardows must smukers eil nut Laiss
Deris 1 RN DPH 11989 the sireet for these cigareties, let algne waih the advenised mile
No doube smokers have roulnalymred ulura lo yich a igarcties and ast a
Joy d Dryfoes: MA 119e5 routinely have rejecied ihem a unsatislying A ma a - mg necoting - D
Mania S. Favere. A0 11988) delivers 1 80 per cent diluting air an eech ouf 1 es by vmhial mol ang mae Rane
Frederich C Green MD 11988) Those smokers who kearn the irchs of compensatery smuking are mure hkely lu
Mary Orce Kaar DPH. MS 11988) persist in smoking these cagarettes than are those smukers whe Jo not de clop
satisfactory compensation ied hniques For ultra low yicld cigareues. the muin
smoking iec hniques are blun kung the diluting aie venis un hiters with lips ur Angper
Kennesh d Rogers, MD MPH 11987 taking larger puffs, and. as Maron and Formann remund us. semply smuk ung aune
Zena I MA MB 11989) cigarenes per day A smokes self selection beas icompensators remain Ihm
Ferando M Trevino. mD. MPH 11987) compensaiors keavel may cause much of the discouraging panern Tnal in and
Experimenual Erdene - Recent esperments show . more ene ouraging DIS lure
I David Wry, MD, MPH 1198) of what maght be ganed frum the edespread use uf ultra lew yicid R4 ctte by
smokers who refuse to quil Suryows Wesi. e al randomly assagned 14 smAEES lu
remain wuh thei oen brand (average - 2 nicoline 14
STAFT te switch le ue uhtra low yeld trand 01 ms nacutine
William H. MeBesch, NO MPH smoking. the witra low yield group had plasma nicoline levels thal were uni a De
Eserutive Deecteriblensaieg Edher cent of the on brand proup 1 . Vs 22 B ng'mil carbon monos de le weh Jiflered by
Adrienne E mo  per CERI uo - : 33 2 ppm) tAlthough nue nuted in the Methud
Pahn reniona Directer explicaly instrucied not to block biser VERIS IN Wes, Personal Cummunn anunl
Doyne Badey Simlarly. in the expenmental component ul sheir repurt. Benuwit e 1 fund
Ansisten Menagig E panial compemsation in smukers whe were fored lo smote wtra lun - - carc C
Marva Barneit (Behavioral bluc king of Aiier vents wa not forbudden in this Mudy. bul I hare becn
Edsoriel A asistene discouraged by delals of the procedure -
The combuned lesson of the cruss sectonal surveys and the forced se hing
Prede - E experments is E if there is lo be ma umal progress with the cumens vyle uitra hre
I Dobbs yickd cagarcile 15 use Areds lo be enc ouraged mure forc cefully Chne ul the 1e assms
Pradee 1 Adyerniing Aunistent smokers dun't put up esh wlura lue yichds 15 that higher yeld cigareies an uny an
eany purchase away. Imagine chu aate kover las ad wath en V ali 2 lase an a
desen nland sucha candy mghi seem treal but In well sius k candy sase the s -
CONTRI BUTING EDITORS pseudoc hos olales would gaiher dust expecially d ihey were nue
-. Aanas JD, MFH the more satislying chocolales
cigarette manulacturers were requared lu i only F
I Heehh Thre - Now (guarding against more problemais Aler deugns"). these cigaretie mighi he -
1 H Tihon. MD. DrPH greaier effect on eapesures lo smoke toxins than they du an the wade upen man e Jus
Neera I Ahe Fiele a drug conient ol medications i sncily regulated 3u should be Jrug wci ol garete
Je # E smoke Many smukers would over smoke these cigarentes. by break Bun uet hite a
I i blocking vent i and by smoking grealer numbers per day And sume smuk a

Irene H. Butier, Po 11987
Jean I MD MPI (19e9
Philie d Weiler, MD u9d)

Julisa A. Waller, MO 160611 reviewed in the current report

tar a 12 smuk -
tan - Oher 1o Jays ul
en i

Michele Horen
Xr I - rhe F
Barburs G Rosenk 1 PD
5  1007, Val 77. Na

heapc ihan
garctie

in

539

2501662717