Polluted Data

by Samuels. Epstein
The author survevs the record of
industri-xenerated data
Eualatig a nlene . shins à emstrams U data-
from Khs senbapre - biased mierpretation. ma
mpulatm. suppresshm and I lex outrighi de-
stms M -are sommemplat e. esper ially when
prohtahle In hmlugirs are mohed Alarmngh.
unh C idens a INMW juwhes strong reserations 3s 0I
the saludus ef an data deseloped hs institunons I
inde uluab ulune romm interesis are dweith EMT
Infarmatm n the runen of a onumk and
pulan, al Jhmer Deunn-making al all lesel of gm-
etument swalimant the av anlallt of a bods of i
formation, aNI the hun ol W hix h the relatise merits
al ahernae pesln 5 an y  red and unsidered
If thi sles mtum et data base is 3 nishee ur imal
ad. then whateirt de ns ate trau hed sauM alsube
unpr i8 mualul. threatenng the laben ol dene
The   shr lmang talk ul all beneht and tk
dna. EI uhn h n regulatory des ISiMIS are based.
une frem the inclusir nes themehes heig iegulat
a Iheve duta are eithet generated and mten preted
HEs anel unner undles EIME * le adustrs
> Hi and sale onu presires

mdere th alles trd

1Jh sER rinmet

à at e -

Bunh intes this prexes 14 asadre of sonsultants,
mtitutes, whene dueis ol appron al prii ides the
h identturs ol these convlanas are ofuen hidden nevt

In m-lunne M arstitie sall (HE I sommete u lalnta generall from presigos unneruues or reseanh
Iu-lunie vienufe uall an nH imune to EE daa unh  addual mantle el auther it The
anl deschopmen and markeig departments. anv onh from the publu bun al fiom ther oni unn C
uIs le hus thrit produ nt jMen e sntes M sts at insuntutens The ieunal mieress ef thew
mirise Indusnal sonirat i e r auall a anded sr somsuhants ate euhet neN dislened to the agene ws
ueth le inine a 3 Labor atutirs and n as H 1 hne atlur and rpen summitices thes sit.
unlwur i lus ig his Tern saslu ned eT the upen u i es hi d a usualh munt. paur a ssmtadennal
st i 1s 4 met mmanune tes umpken prar Canstamts i1 thr (irhrtathtt d Delee
and 15 uenlu mfe matimn ul ites petatins The mast MTET problem uab industrall grn
sonsistent hath uha ae prisened a the mtetesis al erated data n a Jwan palus Derph o emed In
mlun ern theuigh thi hnuted ihr marlega d dau sulumatted in 1917 ter the
prrepuon 2 mete hkeh te refiet sheet le m rath Tod and Ihug Admannt atonn (FDAI In indusn
Samsl a Ft . Ful fert a i Nhafremal andrn pamin lewrl addune petsmis at sonall suhmnedl les the

ti

frem
iesear

smssrnt wath ethn
the

at a les ase hntet in diav n frm
the held ul IX upatmal and enitemmental san a

market. a pias IR . haudh
sliompenne sapmalisi
thr
rin mng

hles La's kuk

Ihe atit  tes ragei le the à ul futurr
a than lee N 1 E mtete 7 and salues
lul 1 - at  f et i Huhik wneah u It Fel anl
n Medwuf -  Aing Ihe 3 a sera l
h Pen af paainsh An In I
delmeating
Ais hath
It

i naldns a haud addane petitions then (ammi.
sies Ielwi La omplamed Alunnt hall  the
Admmassatems hunse heen ie :
pleir a hase Ial aleipatel poudde, ibe regula
al the trfe hune

-
hug
funihre
Hees
ieparsed

a

whu
iomed