14

c/u/ri

JT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Nrw Yerk Timer Servier

wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars -
made cigarettes last year, ringing became an issue even in recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22

TAIPEI I The Mariboro COW- up sales of $119 million. In '9861 trade E between the United New Tawan dollan (79 cents)for -
boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- States and Taiwan. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes 0ow hold nearly 81 shieng. Taiwan's deputy munister of The limits on cigaretie advertis
town. His picture adoms kiocks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered a ing is Japan ard more liberal. Com-
This (renetic, fast-growing 04- cigaretie exports last year, primari teachers told me that junior high lewed iS the United States in 1971.
tion of nearly 20 million people 4 because both Taiwan and Japan school students I 12, A ycars oid Cigarette packages sold in Japan
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re Adnooo joy . $16 billion trade surplus with than the health- -warning labels
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting in si billion in new sales. the United States. Bet those people mandated in the United States.
Wacturens have essentially intro le Japan, which has I population are juat like robbers. If you are A Tbe companies say Amencan

and dod-pus-mom stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
gaitar-playing. pep-suraf promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted

panies can advertise on TV after

O01 this city, next to posters 2 - peroent.
of Winston cigarettes.
amoked 34 billion
year - and for the ErE time, I
nbrtantial number of them were liamsoo
made ts America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to
paonp cigarette advertising to the smoke 300 billion
ialand, and tbat has created a furor.
Oovernment officials bave accused imports have more than tripled
tbe American
ing teen-agers 01 uake da moking. more than 10 perceot last
botly deay.
operation that had monopolized percent by 1992.
pteseure from W ashingion. In the alcohol.
à cigarettes were dropped. salcs said Jaw
wacturens at . time when sales in
laws l1 way up.

"They amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting
out cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign Television

er

for

adi

most of the growth in American La said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-
last dropped long-siandiog restrictions, - are Dow smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry label that,
6 the Brown & Wu- rette companies promote cigareties roughly translated, says, "For the

Corp. exporta of like that? Ie's
of 120 million and where
people a
cigarettes year in that.
American
the past year. Tbe market share 2
S

have
O.K. 6
them

sake 2. health, don't smoke too
the whole markets. We en much" - . warning much milder
"urt = human being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan
not 3O much because of the adver-
tising as because they are of better
there la any quality and taste better. American
thing 3uoin with  way they ure cigarettes are made of blended to-
wincse cigarettos,

ETEE

cigarette manufactur-
Tbey are not allowed 9 advertise
de small stores where cigarettes are
tions. Cigarette manulacturers may
dom exocods 200,000.
Before last year, forcign €
girl cent of tbe market Taiwan

companies of entic- American cigarettes increased to 9 vigorously
- The fOremsmeo-edminisered dicts that it could grow to 15 a 20 sales pitch.

. charge a American companies from u percent S 1986, the promoting their producta and a4 bacco and bave less which tar than Tai-

are not

Department of Agriculture old thry have no plans to change ther bleoded.
American pressure 5E open their have they pusbed S do 1o, they say.

f cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials tbey resent 0n television or in newspapers. Nor
The government agreed to allow markets to producta that éndanger Tbey can advertise only through
otbers into the business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and posiers hung near cigarette racks or
year since stiff restrictions on for- "This really buns our feelings, old, as well as through promo-
2 American cigaretles LaT Taiwan ".. tbe United Shau-kong Sustes docs legisiator. not en also place 120 E - year in maga-
have soared, generating much- courage its people to amoke, why zines, cach of whosc aroulation iel-
and tbe number of anti-amoking causc of American ada. They bire rettos accounted for lcas than -
According to U.S. Depart- arettes free in nightcluos. k's 3 cigarettes, banned importa at
mbet o Agriculture, people B Tai. difficult lor Sunak boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed to sell

tised, altbough it does now.

a

peadlod growth for American man- export to Tawan? Younger
the Uniled States are way down and females are smoking .

Ee
po-mak-6!

yount attractive
immonal. -

£4


the

wearing short skirts o give a cis posed strict quotas a
and then it becomos a habit. It'i cigaretter and imposed sint tariffs

As rerult, imported cigarcties cost