MK82223022
Life Sciences Vol. 15. PP. 1291-1300 Printed in the : A
Pergamon Press
METAROLISM a BENTO (APYRENE BY KECROSOMES PRON TISEUTE ar PaPCOLANT AND PITAL MAMNIERE Irene : Wang, Ronald R. Rasmunsen, and : Timothy Crockar Can - Besearch Institute, Univarsity of California, F Praneieco, and Depart- ment of Community aed Ivironmental Medieine, Univereity of California, Irvine". (Received in final for 26 August 1974 Sumary Pretreatmeat ef hansters vith benzo (a)pyrene (BaP) grestly increased a sl vitre netabol iae of Bat by lung alerosones from prognant ha atare, and a I effect on the matabolien of BaP E 1iver niere- somos. The produetion of various metaholites of Bap by lung miero- sonos vae inereaned to different extenta: 3-hydrery-Bap (3-CH-BAP was one of the najor metabolites the netabolic yielda of 9,10- dikpbredihpkreer-ier (9,10-di01) and 7,8-diol vere increased nore than that ef the 4,5-diel. In : I of liver nicrosoneo, only the yieide of 9,10-dioi and 7,8-diol vere incrensed ovar the contrel levels, The presence of cyclohexene oxide in the incuba tion a tures decreased the produetion of the diols. Basal-leval anryme activities in placental, fetal liver, and fetal akin microsones in metsholizine AP vere very low. Pretren tment of pregant hainsters with RaP Endoced RaP-met taholising enzymes in fetal tisrue 2 fold. Benno (alprrene CDaP1 ie . carsineser and environmental conta . nant that is found in coal tar, nineral oi1, car exhaust, tohacco smoke, moked foods, etc. (1). In vitro stadies shovod that netabolie activation of BaP ie required for ita intaractios vith proteina and nuclele acide (2,3) Farller studies with : livar pr eparations 14,5) and hanstar liver micror -  (6,7) showed that BAP le metahelined mainly 8 phenolie and Gihydredibpodroxy taiol der eeagaAT and to quinones whteh ere ensynatie or air oxidation peoducte of enstable phenolie metabolitas (4,5) as well a some anidentifies nere polar metabolites, The motabolies of BaP has generally heen neamured Aq the production of 3-hydroxy BaP (3-ON-MaP) wich je often one of the major metahol ites in oaata (3). 3-01- Dap ie tosie to mitured calle (9), I it shovs vary 1irtle interaction vs th DBA in vitro (6) 2 has not been shown to 8 sarcinecenie & the other hand, K-regton epowides ef relntet polyeyelie aronatic hylrocartens (PAM)bind to cell-
1291
