HKB2228112
SANTA BAKBARA SAN14

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO

.
- 2
IEPAKIME / - sune
January 3, 1977
Dr. Willias H. Fishman
La Jolla Cancer Research rouridation
715 Muir Lands Visto Hay
La Jolla, CA 92037
Dear Dr. fishan:
and Salk.

a

1A t uit A :

We are looking fonmrd to your active participation in the scientific activities
of the La Jolia rescirch cocmunity. In particelar, the activities of the La Jolla
Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes
should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps
The establisnrent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental
prublems is particularly irely. It will be o: grvat potential importance for
pulling togetter work by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation,
character iztaion and doternination of the sionificance of hurian oncodevelopmwontal
antigens such as alphafvlsprotein and Carcinuwebryonic ant idens.
One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship
of increaced serura concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinogen
exposure in humans. Our studies on rats and nouse model systers clearly derion-
strate tnet anirals pasodxo to hejatocarcinogens have clevated serum AFP concen-
trations prior to developeant of mslionant timcrs. It is hoped that systeretic
study of husan sera frum difforect sources will determing if serus AFF concun-
In addition. the role of env romsental factors such as hormonal influences on
the production of onc-odevelopmeuta gene hrrh.t can be further explored in
different sy:teas. Such data iwlies that (he prodiution of siscodsvelopmental
gene product: by tunor cells is net a fixed property of a aiven tumoir but is
He look forrard to vorking with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation
in furthering research in the importunt subjer of oncodeveloprental gene

trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoses exposure.

subject to enviroumental controls.

expression.
Best regards.
Stewart Srl1, M.D.
Professor
SS/nb