NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A to campaign woo Da de County teenagers away from smoking la under way bere as part of a nation-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groups, the society hopes 9 persuade a large pro- portion of the nation' - young people that smoking may lead Key wrapnn in the - E palgn, is a fim strip detalling the mse against tobacen, I has already I abews te wsenth Eraders in 13 achools as educational telesinion, and wIlI 2 broadeast tn minth grade arlence students s the apring. The seventh-grade directed b teacher Rill program, included a panel discuasion In which students directed ques- tions at Dr. Francia N. Cooke, representing the society. "Teachers I have talked to agree that although amoking la not a serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu- dents are approsching the age when the problem will be faced." Erne sald: : value le à nimstripe a E 16 gives studeata - logleal argument with whleh ithey eonld retuse ta L - when enrouraged a : atrele et frienda, he dde a Nim strip le also being shown "live to senior bix J achools in the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October '6 096T
Education
Youth Habits
Cuts Fag
Ameriean eigaret aeking can by reduced 30 per cent through a teenage education program # the high schools. These statistics were presenied Saturday A Walter G. I director of publie education for the Ameriean Cancer Society, here for the Florida Division, ACS, annual meeting I said the I I program was direeted at leenagers as a ma fer "ewrbing eaneer beesmne d te a,apes eeavjetion that soking a . I e fatal I a proepects of reducing cigaret moking y one-fifth were jboan in . pilol program conducted with 22,000 high I aludenta et Purtiand, Ore., 1 1 I ds - Sbidents I 1 I ene most lkely e a Smoking increased is & succesaive high school grades. Among boys particigating s the Oregon murvey, 143 pes eent payows as freshmen. 12 g cent as sopbemores, 31.1 & eent a juniars, 1 35.4 s seniorg. A correspond- ing figures for girl stodenta were 48 per A 10.6 per cent, a or the students. 28 per cent of the boys smoked regularty at least enre . 1 a PP 116 per I of the girts 4 Education programs againat smoking reduced the namber of I amokers I boys from 13 cent to 7.7 & cent, and beginning sirl smokers from - PROGRAM EFFECTIVE I eid Che figures projected E . four-yger perie indicaled that R per eent P bigh school I could  delerred from amoking through the ACS educational progrem a sudy, la L pavaaa that the most aftective leaving the decision a I * N Least ellective, he related wa the I instruction not l. 1 As part ef ib anti-emoking edunation prograd. a ACS E devised a Ain arip I electa A - : for ecreming in
to cancer.
at the Lagu. Mar Hotel cancet. I . amume
Evans,
à iigaret habrt a E per cent and 32 per cent.
4
per cent
approach ar in
F long term efect 1 I
- echool clasaroons BLL MULLEN 0/0033686
