BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
u
Area stores
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For the Delly Camera nors. kids. kr,
referring to the Increased enforce- were issued a summonk- penally Tur selling tobacco to a m pau; to aULAnq cigaretles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky enousb_to down on selling cigarettes 01 ml- natS appoar u court. The maximum The sting. conducted on the eve -noris a 002s fina of the American Cancer Soclety's The Suna involved two toams. Great American Smnokeout. was lo Each included u uniformed omcer. tended to educate clerks that it's il- a pisin clothes omcer. and two legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High Schoal-giris, Who Police targeted gas stations, con giris" parenis signed a waiver al- vénience, drug, grocery and dis- lowing them la Ealce part ur the.op: law tas neverbeer enforced, said The juvenlles ware told not to Boulder Folice OMicer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "We're letting the stores know had 8 show Identification.
nesses this week during a crack.
"count swres. Unul recently, the. eration. this is going to happcn, ahc sald,
the cigarettes. and, If asked, they (See DOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores ' for cigarette sales to mlnors At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cri 28uh1 SL, one of the girls asked when she Was iksted - m the cashlar for a pack of Mart OUSRURUE raid the wns a stus boro Lights. ofcer Rob Hauke- dent and couldn't pOEE DR ness, In plain clothes, poons UL tourt Costs. Haukeness pou o lina hahind her to witnese thc 0108002 her, saying she could- A placard near the cath regis. the Distriet Attorney to do cam - ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity ecrvice Instradof paying clerk asked to see some identifi- The clorka, not the store own cation. The buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l do it to usiund od at the license, act it down on stores or clerks, she said. "Al-: the counter, and sold her the though, when you ce clerks ciy: After they left, Haukeness Roulder Polica targeted 16: up and identified him aloros and cles a al ail bur four "When I bee them ask for an year. Tha Arst sting. conducted sting E I think they're going to re- 5 September, targeted 16 stores. fuce the calc, Haukeness sald. and ST clerks received sum:
(From Page OI
The clerk at Colony Market
transaction.
prububly work out a deal-with-
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Aine driver's license. which showed court coste.
cigarettes. ESPE summons.
ing, you inight think otherwise. * recelved summonses punaas tobacco sale monses.
03 a police ofcer. Manka came in and wrote the clerk a Thic wock's "But they never do."
operation was the. ans -
