Vol.
No. 23
EDITORIALS
1317
The New England Journal of Medicine Official Organ of The Massachusetts Stedical Society Founded le 1812 as dve NEV EXGLAND JOUXXAL Or MEDICINE SURGERY and continued in 1828 se Vol. of the BOSTON MEDICAL AND SURGICAL JOURNAL PUBLISHED WEEKLY 81 THI COMNITTEE OX PUBLICATIONS or THE MASSACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY Claude E. Welch, M.D., Clinina Joseph Carland, M.D., EDITOR EMERITUS Franz J. ingelfinger, M.D., EDITOR ASSOCIATE EDITORS George S. Richardson, M.D., Book REVIEWS Robert O'Leary, ASSISTANT EDITOR EDITORIAL BOARD
ACTION NO ASBESTOS ASBESTOS workers are unintentional victims of industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary fibrosis, pleural calcification, mesothellomas and lung cancer. Asbestos exposure 13 now widespread, wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex- posure. Whatever the exact nature of, asbestos or ferruginous bodies may be, there is no doubt that electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers ease in the general population at this time, the presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing. Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by most chemical and physical means and can foat freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods. Asbestos discases have a long latent sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must be made now, on the basis of "reasonable probabili- à rather than after a delay for a precise definition of dose-response relations. These thoughts are reinforced by the work of
invalving not
air but also
ASD
only
drinking water,
Alexander Marble, MD. Samucl Proger, M.D.
Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al- Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-
20 period,
Jane le Desforges, M.D. Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.
Ronald 4 Malt, M.D.
Arnold L. Smith, M.D, years or more. We therefore believe that more
Robert E. Johnson, M.D. Norman 2 Levinsky, M.D. Francis D, Moore, M.D. Charies A. Sanders, M.D. Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D. Ronald A. Arky, M.D. Dana L. Farnsworth, M.D.
Jola W. Lindefield, M.D. Murphy and associates in this issue of the Journal Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, 6 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in Louis Weinstein, M.D, new ship construction include better than John R. David, M.D. exposure data and Indicate a high incidence of as- Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. bestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-
Howard Bleich, M.D.
usual
Isadore N Rosenberg, M.D. Milton C. Paige,Jr., BUSINESS MANAGEA
tions. A second study of Murphy et al.a reports two cases of pleural disease (one mesothelloma) in workers who sanded asbestos foor tiles. Since the
AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au- aul should consult "information for Authors," This material thors simulated the working conditions and found may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour- concentrations of 1.3 Abers per milliter 'of TOOm Nel, or it may be obtained from the /oanal office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of currently CASZ REPORTS, usually published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 10 Abers every gence" section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled
manuscript, including references, should be typed double spac a and all material, including figures, should be submit- reference to articles reporting closely related cases. A very fibers remains in the short case report or : description of a technic submitted as a "BRIEF RECORDING" should be limited ou 500 words. MATERLAL printed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period. cine is covered by copyright, The Journal docs not hold itself responsible for statements made by any contributor. NOTICES should be received not later than noon on Mon- day, 24 days before date of publication. cles published Requests should be sent to the author. imply endorsement by the Journal, Arbor, Michigan 48106. chusetts 02115.
used threshold limit values. A
Aber per milliter of figures suggest that
ted in duplicate.
room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per an alarming number will still accumulate over a 10- A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation- et Academy of Sciences panel* has called for control of asbestos emissions at the source and for protec- The report also calls for further rescarch on the
these lung,
REPRINTS: The /ournal does not sock reprints of the artl- tion of those who are exposed in their occupations. ALTHOLGH all advertising material accepted is expected to biologic effects and the physical characteristics of conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance does not asbestos Abers; such data are urgently needed "If a SUBSRIFTION PRICES (worldwide) $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates are in U.S. fundsonly. confidence." Although we endorse these recommen- M:CROFILM volumes available to regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for through University Microfilms, 313 'N First Street, Ann technical controls based on existing COMMUNICATIONS should be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as- land journal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects
knowledge.
on cells and tissues arc important and must be con-
