NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A I campaign to Dade County teenagers away from smoking la under way bere a part of a natlon-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. through schools By working and youth groupe, the society hopes to persuade a large pro- portion of the nation . young people that amoking may Jead s cancer. Key APapn la 5 e a E I le a flim strip detalling thr ras against tebacen, It han already i shewn to venth graders ln 15 schools * edurattonal telesinien, Bnd will 1 breadeat tn min Kradn acience students la : The 9 enth-grade program, directed by teacher Rill Evana, inchuded a panel discussion LE which students directed ques- tiona at Dr. Francis N. Cooke, representing the society. a Teachers I have talked to agree that although amoking la not a serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu. dents : approaching the : when the problem will be, faced," - Erene said: TOTAL I value a the nimatrips P that IB glves studenta - loglkal argument with whleh I eenld refta a I enreuraged by alrele et frienda," : added. The Nim strip la also being alim - lo senior big achools la the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October 9, 1960
Education
a Fag
Youth Habits
Cuts
.
American eigaret amoking can be reduced M cent through a teenage education program . the high a ola These statistics were presenled Saturday by Walter G. James, director of public educalion for the American Cancer Society, here for the Florida Division, ACS, annual meeting Leenagers as . mean fer - a cane becsme et ded s,Apo esevietion aat staking la a caase o fatal lung a proepects of redacing cigaret smoking beb one-fih were abonn in a pilol program conducted with 27,000 wa acheol etudenta ee Partland, Ore., I - d Soidents I I a aked we I a la e Smoking increased in the successive agh school prades. Among boys participating in the Oregon arvey. 2 sad cent amoked as freshmen. 15.2 per cent an sopbemores, 3LI per eent a juniars, - 354 : i A correspond- 3u ligures for girl stodenta were 46 per I 19.6 per cent, or the students. 258 cent a boys smoked regularly at least enre - 1 a a : per ent af the girle 4 Education programs againat moking reduced the mumber ol 1 amokers I boys from a cent le 1.7 per cent, and beginning girl mokers from 14 PROGRAM ETFECTIVE Jamer mid Che ligurer projected à four indicaled that 20 per eent P high sehool I could - deterred from amoking through a 6 educational progra E A stody. he i revealed that I moet diactive approach - in susoy A leng term Klect a moking, letving the decision la 1 ab Least ellective, he related : the aim ine 1 As part ef ib antidmoking eduration . a ACS has devised a Ain strip uhattr n allecta habit for ecreming LE y achool claseroon
at the Lago. Mar Hotel I said the , cancer. ckom are
progra F : directed al
a
apring.
I a dgaret pabit
14.2 E cent and 20 E rent.
per cent
per
.
+ 1
2 E MULLEN C 1002686
