-
RAP

AMERICAN JOURNALOP
Public
Health

Editorial
Volume E Numbert
Alfred I MD, MPH

May 1987 Eatablished 1911

EDITOR Less Hazardous Smoking and the Pursult of Satistaction
Cigarettes deliver drugs: al rool smoking is drug laking Scentahe use has
confrmed nicotine as a powertully reinforcing. psychoactive drug For the consum-
ASSISTANT EDITOR er. then, ulra-low-yield cigareties raise, the simple issut uf Jrug 'cultany at
I J. Rothman, DPH adulteration. The unsatinfactoriness of ultra-low yeldigarenes n sen in the in caly
of customers for these pauducts EVER la healthconxium California As nuted by
Maron and Fortmann in this issue of the Journal, only per sent of smukers in
EDITORIAL BOARD vonepndod based sample smuke cigareties in the rangeol 0 to 02 mp ne antine, ko
Mary F. I DPH (1967) 2 "lar Despite the publicaly about discase nsks of smuking ind the widespreal
Chareraon beliel that ultra low yiel cigarentes are less hazardous must smokers - nul 3
I 1 RN. DPH (1989 the sireel for these cigareties, lei algne walk the advertised mule
No doubi smokers have routinelyme ukra lo- yiele sigarelies L an de
Joy G. Dryfoos: MA (19es) routinely have rejected ihem as *untpsiesun A ma - 0 - mg ne a dins
Martin ui I no (1988 delivers ataat 80 per cent dilutans air in cach puf taken a offhal smok ne me hete
Frederich C. Green MD (1968 Those smokers -ho karn F incks of compensatory smuking are mure hkely lu
Mary Grace Kovar DePH. M5 11984 persist in smoking these ciparelles than are those smokers who do not Jev - chap
I I MD. MPH (1985) salisfactory compensation lechniques For ulura low -yeld cigareues. the num
smoking lechniques are blocking the diluting in venis on hiters wh.lips or hnger
I D Rogers, MD MPH USET taking larger puffs, I as Maron and Forsman remund s simply smoking Pure
Zena I MA MR (1989) cigarenes per day A smoker self-selection bas icompensators rem. un min
Fenunde M Trevine. PhD. MPH (1987) compensators kave) may Cause much of the discouraging pancrn lound in de
Exprimenul Eradrar - -Recent eapenments shuw 4 more encouraping piclure
Joe I Wray, HD. MPH U98 of whal might be Baned frum the waspread use of ultra low yield cigares by
amokers who refuse to quil Suryous West, er : randomiy assigned 14 muke lu
remain wwh their o-n brand (average 13 mg nicoline. 14 2 mg € Jand 12 smukers
ATAIT le switch le ue ultra- los yeld brand 01 mg nicoline Ju "tar , Over 10 day of
i H MeBeash, MD MPH amoking the ultra low yield group had plasma nicotine levels that weir unly 44) 2
Eseretive Derren/Manuanes Pahrer cent of the own brand group 19 V1 22 ngimil. carbon monoa ade kevels differed by
Adriene : P % 2 CEM uo 13 312 ppm) IAlihough not noted an the Methud, smukers - ein
Palirana Darrether explicaly instructed no to block hiser VENIS IK West, Personal Cummunicatum)
Doyne Banky Simalarly. in the expenmental component ul iben repurt, Benuma. et a funind
Aaaintent Manner i panial compensation in smuk ers who were lorued lex smoke ultra -lu- PIJIA SIEA -
Marva Baren iBehavioral bloc hing of hlier vent 43 noe forbiden in this Mudy. bui I have been
The combuned lesson of the cross sectunal surveys and the forced ser hing
1 rin € expenments is that, à there is lo be manmal progress with the current style ulrr -
Derkene Dobbs yield cigareile. 45 use Ards lo x encouraged - are forcelully. (Ane ul Ihe ista . a
Proderak Adverning Autural smokers dun't 2 up with ultra luw yxlds 15 that higher yeld cigarciles - only ar
3 purchase a-ay Imagine chuculate luwer las ed wath an I chaulale an 4
desen island suc à Candy t sem a ireal bul in a : stik ked ipues slame the -
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS pseudoc hocolales would galher dus especially d Ihey - A nue cheaper 2
ir cigareite manulacturers wer requared E make only - 2 - € clies
Barbars PUR I G Rosenhrants, Thre - New PAD (guarding against more problemate hiser Jesgnis"). Ihese ciparenes mach -
1 H i MD, De grealer eflect on eapesures lo smoke toxins thanthey du in the wide upen mas > L
Noera T F Firl as drug conient of medications is stily regulated su should be Jrug yicld ul siguelle
Jene Connelky MLS 1 Many smukers would over smuke ihese cigaren. by break une ul hiter 14
I i blocking vent holes ard by amoking grealer mumbers per day And some m -

lrene H. Burler, n-D (1967)

Julia A Waller. MD (1989 reviewed in the curr eni report

Philie G. Weikr MD used)

Ediari Luistan discouraged by delails of the procedure *
George J. I JD. MPH ihe more satislying chocolates

Michele Horte
P-N Helth : nhr La-

APH May 1907, Val n No.

530

2501662717