New! Improved! Dangerous?
4PAI More Foods Getting Fortified With Additional Calcium, Experts Fear Toxic Reactions
2 LAFaance Lasunk freath 7 Fadingte Pat hend
much hore cakium then en lunat of ala a real enntalan sno to 400 mtional al de or course S Pardun's Weaver, Sur pen ple nist getsing nel 20 in 400 millegras afcalcha daily, the coul die F U-C Au. Mal a bol et people verral do at only par 1 Waod connure, "H you don drink mill, your calium eo amption le alamt 300 le 400 mllig un a du br Fays That's rule of thumb penple I orale With the cocption offean new sudu de rescarchere agrce that in palcat mot trw nal aume and er than . 500 minigrams calchim daily, regardbese n veriations of a erption I Count up, a a aux * ser au "rem seng 7 ANT Wuod any CS str withln dir timl k partiral 00 a Tann a 4 1e arin moliur Errine ba go mie edei in and e leenage son who alread gets plenty h abocr diet of the at a % for he sa might lay cas cken for titio en nr 4 a cinnfortitied n cere a and an a tat be guanles - nr en 14 - at aller knelell - addre ar Fax coutyle bowle ad ceres au an after- chool uu could cisily be surung thousa of 1 Rerams ofcalchal Waod and other researchers abe aumo dat an brat 60 Det yourcalcium free arant à of foods rather the 000 or two heavil furtifsed edex ard Unt at kast -0uur of sbould rosme food al and oshar dairy pod- sote "Ilaturighis. Weaver explins, peo ple à have Losn deficient in calcium have lem lonal is JANS nal reflavin, vitamin V and vitamin DE - mailabe in milk. "Dalry vas a KA ol one sop shopping ke
A Calcium-Fortifled Day 3/4 ce lotal pered 12 cup catoury Hartilud als ne ap pay au dortifed Mrete Mald onnge hloe LUNCH la a ee aan a Suide choean Wustar Engla a Min Nutt-Caln bar 3a akties chicken Lrast re sppe Semat Courtry Credk Pas Caktum - baked potate, tappes with the Sheds Seread Country Rack Pa Galoke E t - - po eup Orenrs Calelum Rid vatila ke cream - 2 a le
à caliciam meommendation For teenage la 00E maigrams adells 1a agea sn
min ral 2,500 atome 0001 110 350 30 know 300 120 83 272 107 ISO 130 200 145 de 142 - 26 11 22 212 10 50 162 GOO 260 3.304 407 a
2 foereal with ma anda das 1.000 milligrams and adults Slelus, 1.200 milligrant. Fer with the douena of al orange hrior lor herak 64 A en clem-fortilied foods 00 the markel today, a case to commun non den at lollowed ky a sanch lee a the milligramm 8 Tulerable Upper Intela Lovel set La the Natkal Acabry at lofe altern ne M di mome beefor chick Selence mun on diet of oaly sog calurios, Chred rut Ihe Alluminut m -
ochtime am-ar ad-checae 1 en and a congle et sequalla topped with mondar, Aluwed a . data maltivite BREAKFAST min/mineral pill kor nutritional a nurance. les while watching AL in the evening a balteup (olay, a cap) se ke - Sounde prily ireann alle, right? Actually, depending on the hrants danite, yuca day paran could net IA Ham-and- -cheese sandwick: beeen 3,000 and 3.300 miligras LE cald am 40 paticantly sure the the "Eulevable Upper latake Level" et 2,500 milligrams set ley the the National Acador et Scienes a NOONSILL SNACK (NAS). many koode ure now fortified with calelum that - has beesee mach ra der an au snet the safety linalt. Anf that has ne et DINNER teition poseder ouncerned. "An whk anything 1 on be a 1/2 cap hrecol tapped with pruhlem pay Richard od, chef ol dhe Mineral de Noamilability Lacentory ar the lensan Nutrition Research Cester al The University in Boeton. "The wadow between agatimal letade and the upper line a urdr. lhet anal a Indeed, the adequale intaler EVENING SNACK paysu by tha NASE 1,000 to 1,30 0 mil- ligrams day. depending an sge Or it bwice dost marted h Clant antSateny that "ylnot and you've reachod the salety ociling Fur sang other cutrienta, you'd TOTAL lave a heroane the al leque lutake mauy Gmarn helore machinut rialy leyels What can happes a you take in toe mith ralciuis ower Gme? 1 siys there bavr beun "on Uhe corder of 30 cand reports ofcal cium toukcity, whkh can PMPIS karle as Le 100 n pertups levie me a the hunction.
- al Bune Metaboli- Laba at FURL dils package of nutrieste sie notre as a
liore. disales eut alt theue cal -Ifiation Olbern N flat caletum dortified boods ar She alus qunatlun the LOX mil medi a - Farle mare dumo in guan e Thr kiden made a are theue, "might br are a resanatile eptlon " Carde the ocee A lenam al ralcium me - to avry serv * Se st cak-inn bet nut nren macinily de . purl tinduly walnemb le reemrk and a Batificution, sin Robert Hean eal una oftital ecreal, SELL an a level ether abstannes Cont ealdun brt e, Then, too Appercalcenals. a toxiclay et Omula And unlie Wood, he's not partio & an frandented cul. probully higher Inwla Rosenberg director of the Nutri the mlacrul a cald, can a 00 vele Mine ularty concerned about anyon a e des over Chan laany ocher cadelum for sined Rood, the Jour aret Center al Tulte, laparticul lur hane furmatin, pertier darb n peogle - board. "There are lota 2. very I thy pegole Weever ha adrie reservar tional too, be macemed that a 61 with Nat con mini have had astone - the pour Too a hach cald you en same lots mne than fthe lie be L M a the quaka in the holy a woglange thin ofa singhe nutrie a will Lal people intus am can ado podece sba urption of two other claims Some poraladom whs depend on n calcium, - dos will abaoth min calcitum il theklag the SA nouriang the - hes al e ntulminerabe trou and rene the biter 4 laryedy on data diet, vadk an conterds : you hare divited ala thrunghout the day quated for don't get of the hank of weal. wilda k poorsan lor wound bralit ag and 5 Alrica and the Lapps fue lard crindeer F 4 That's wde poonk who tabe GUO ax prudent dictary choloes because Jon ve par en fi actioning a the lemune geten sorthern 5. dinar e "typicaliy pt 6,000 maillipans worth 24 alcium upplements picket n au tin . vil Sortified Nodu ha While sach problems bave been rare sota about which boods the ndoeral ondat to 2 conda del haunulability teating br Theal's your bones completely proterted Just he mm ne mperusarlet sbelves rabcs the Pur inntanue. Ures per in auw tout natket n thil the cakelon in the cereel et al- denalty is 4 strengahened le excreda," he trosel ed hr hewalng Tarare commen. ing lee UTE thet contalos 300 mitanns sorbed a wellas the cakchura amilk For aye le S wealined too lied vitamin Not Uhr Wood thinks calcium-fortified of Calchem per halleup inatead of d typical every ann miligram A ralcium consturd D. which le necessary ET calclum absorp foodsares had thing T think they re 001 100 milligrar ee pue Heaney a dans rks a (the amount le arp et mak). the body ab Bin- and perfaps by too much sodjun au dea," be A a "Averna I are much Re mixod lochne on the buek faxe altus norbs tou miltign au or poughly 30 peecent. calleta Beeh Habn sount wuth le fur the 2 a A a 20 le 20 yeare olf averum AAde Conale Venves, calchum lavestiga che ahrorption tate por clean I you hase L other wals, as Haus pets a. 1. only pbas 710 malgr ums et ak cien a day toe at Pardue Univerally in Wiet Lalayette, Chree to knr cups a paille ln one siting- um la only ene part et the par ande Fest le wlim They shoull R curunieur 1,000 mil d "re late 60 aee peo à sur thercime of I cuntains aboal 000 minighans cuase you ve lar a bon et Total doesn Teraux And wasen 65 7 older, who tag a des cas 1 calcium loeat lota duialles 50 15 percat Aut 130 a -oun a Abosild he getting 1.300 milligrams, are tak- of Eu and lorles Then you're solvilag ode larams, a's the inar wilh the Total Since leg le ooly about PL Unt amount tr a sim problem whlle making another ann lpreva can arving mplica 1.000 mamgam you Batuee Richr codum - Laarence boltre a an the arder of VARTES 9R a mil 150 D laghen, chief of the Calci In othrr a and . met nhe bing brenibly . in fralth à Natin
am researcher at Creiston University in 2 fortification, she a a munin a certalnir 1
W had . study 51 det beanopaus www to 00022 milipans et el am per day pa day are alvinet te - their two aon - m." Wuni mports High-calcin ditts ne have "absolately so problem be says millipam pells a diferent nals,
Jeme Hort. a mineal researcher at Pur
dueed pine balme
Far he and others do have san suppinau Heaney de the paint when he dans prisciscat, too the preur don't non have
- a plethora a cal clun-lortined Beum added to, mach lowe idum abe reconneudlethes" Tu - Bar story for nen althomeh the the
prodarer, General Mms. Oe one land, hr caus you Tre griting al of culduni. "Be4 - 12 an due cokum un - - mi iner an mineral from the buly via Lhe urlac. . . t seh I 100 tot thent, leaney san Lindner E a a votre Aitor IAN 7
d the hout
of obertyl I
