HKE2228112 SAST BANBAR : LULINIA 6
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
Le : 2
- w 1 11 14PARTMI / : rain January 3, 1977 Dr. Willian H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Researci roundation 715 Muir Lands Vista Hay La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. Fishan: and Salk.
We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of the La Jolla rescarch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzynes should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establisnrent of a focal center for rcsearch proorams on oncodevelopmenta prublems is parti:ularly ieely. It will be 0! gruat potential importance for pulling tcgetter work by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation. characteriztaion and doternination of the significance of huran oncodevelopmental antigens such as alphafetoprotein and carcinoesbryonic antigens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship of increased seruid concentrations of AFP to precalignant lesions or carcinogen exposure in humans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systors clearly derion- strate tnet anirals exposed to hejatocarcinogens have eleva ated serum AFP concen- trations prior to developrant of malignant tuncrs. It is hoped that systeratic study of hean scra frut differert aurces vill determing if serum AFF concun- In addition, the role of envirumental factors such as hormonal influences on the production of oncodevelopantalal gene prj-le.1 can be further explored in different sy: Lems Such data implics that (he prod;u tion of oint ocave elopmental gene produci; by turor cells is net a fixed property of a givon tumoir but is He look forrard to working with you and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the importunt subjert of oncodeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinosen exposure
subject to environmerital controls.
express ion. Best regards, Stewart Sell, M.D. Professor SS/nb
