Newsday (New York, NY) May 1, 1998, Friday, ALL EDITIONS 'S.INIOdAIA Page A57
BIG TOBACCO CANT CUT TEEN SMOKING
By Alan Brody. Alan Brody, a marketing journalist. is the author of a Cigarette Seduction."
THE TOBACCO industry may be guilty of many big lies, but Congress and the public health community may be developing a big lie of their own: that the cigarette companies can undo the phenomenon of teenaged smoking. As Stanton Glantz, author of "Cigarette Papers," wrote: "The tobacco companies know how to get kids smoking and, But the issue . bigger than tobacco companies. Because the settlement talks with the government are based on the tobacco companies' supposed omnipotence, the likely failure will create a whole new layer of corruption all the way from illegal sales to fly by-night tobacco companies to the potential for more damaging products to enter the gap. Adults tend to have a poor memory of their own youth and why they themselves became smokers. It wasn't because the tobacco companies marketed to them. It was because they marketed to adults and, as teenagers, they desperately A lively grandmother in her 80s confided to me that she started smoking at 10 and quit at 40. That means she began smoking in the 1930s when cigarette ads were still focusing on tobacco leaf qualay and Turkish flavor. There were no ads for teenagers and certainly none for pre-teens. In fact, the country barely pand any attention to teens, Conventional wisdom has it that advertising and marketing arc responsible for selling tobacco. It helps. But does it cause smoking? The absence of advertising is Finland and, for a while, in Italy showed that cigarettes sell just fine The etiology of smoking suni deeper into the realm of mystery than legislators and public health officials may care to venture. But that is truly where the allure has its origins. Teenagers aren't responding to ads nearly OS much as they are Since we as a society have taken no steps to fill a gap in coming-of-age rituals common in other cultures, guess what industry has come to occupy this role? Kids seek a magic path to the "real heart" of adulthood. They will accept danger but they want belonging and a kind of personal guide, the mystical amulet popular in myth. Cigarettes offer this. That When teenagers were invited to tell Congress why they smoke, one girl said she was a nonsmoker until she watched a talk show where experts cited depression as a reasons teenagers smoked. OS. that's what you do!" said the girl, who I have no objection to taxing the tobacco companies or throwing a few perjurers in the hoosegow. But the demand for smoking is a phenomenon that is not covered by the proposed legislation and both the tobacco companies and the public health groups are going to be left with an embarrassing and costly predicament As the European experience has shown, raising prices works - for a while and then kids have a way of readjusting A greater fear, as one teenager put = in an interview with an American Cancer Society worker T - spoke with: "if you make them so expensive, we'll just o8 on to In this politicized environment, it is easy to believe that legislation can make magic. Or that the tobacco companies are solely responsible for the risc in smoking. When the Centers for Disease Control announced that smoking had increased 30 percent in six years, they were quite pleased because the implication is that the tobacco companies are to blame. But this was also during the most hostile media period tobacco has ever faced. Newspapers, TV networks and a ven magazines that once quivered at the thought of losing cigarette ad dollars now thumb their noses, knowing drug
given proper economic motivation, they will know how to stop kids from smoking."
wanted a be adults.
without ads.
responding to their own demands of adjusting to the tribulations of growing dn
they are about life and death only adds to their "spirit power." apparently had been feeling depressed, and she began smoking.
other drugs.
2
a
