True-ra lae Questlons on the Chenistry and 301450101844045444 Odor end Flavor
la H F Sono modern workers suggest that nocurate mensurent of vibrattonal
frequency (in the far intrared, for exenple) of nn unknown odorant
will pernit prediction of its quality and intenslty.
No elenente substance, not even halldes or ozone hos any odor; Instead
they react with the mucose forning new products whlch are smelled; but
A Sone odorants have sterle or vlbrational propertles whlch force the
conclusion that they are odor less whon they are not.
II. 1F Present evldence strongly suggests thet dlfferent perts of the olfactory
receptor area, llke the retina In the eye, ere quallty-specific.
T Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor
No one yet has a fire clue as to the critico reletion between the
molecule and the receptor which permits on odor perception.
The greater the secretion rate of eucous or sellve, the higher their pH,
end both pli and temperature influence 2 quallty of sensation in the
111. I The Ideal Instrumental detector 2 le respond to odors in the sano
quantitatlve range as doos an enlmat or human subject.
1 a Such an Ideat detector has not been developed.
IF observers with head In fixed position cen by virtue of the two
Indopondert nostrils easily discern stereo Suoll effects, 1.e. they
can tell whotier an odorant Is of the right or left hand, much : one
uses nts two ears in locating the source of a sound.
For certa In musk-like conpounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to
trigger a hunon olfactory response
v. - Adotation to one olfactory qunlity does not signlficantly reduce
sensitivity to any of ther dissiei lar quality, but does reduce sensi-
tivity to all slallor quelifies.
- By employing a similarities nethod of comparlng qualities, one con nov
obtain ldentity ond degroes of difference without recourse to troshle-
vi, I Hunger louers thresholds slightly o some food quallties but not for
ir s! now possible to loentlfy the Intensity and quality of a certain
given stimull simply by expert examination of the electrophysiological
record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons.
Electrical stimulatton of taste in man yields only reports of "sour"
and a "metallic" or "alkaline" quality.
Direct electricol stimuletlon of the olfactory senso has never yet beon
successfully accompllshed.
VII. 1 Although total anosala is rare In humans and egeusio even rarer, there
is evidence that ln analogy to color vision deficiences, some people
are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities while hoving normal
sensitivity to others.
Toplcal anesthetlcs applied to the tongue show that alfferent quellties
Certaln endocrine diseese entitles make It possible for ante people
quite sensitively to "smell" such "odor less" substances 09 sucrose or
sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both teste and odor can be
reduced to normal by manipuletion of endocrine levels.
Prenonopausa wonen at the tlme of ovulation flnd certain odors extremely
disegreenb le whlle at other times In the menstrun cycle these same odors

soete elements possess taste.

surface lo order to be smelled,

chemica senses.

IV.

apae words.
others.

of taste disappear at different rates,

they will judge quite pleasant.

OVI