Carcinogenels vul 13 nu 13 re : 2735 1924
arcinogens met
chemopreventive agents

ung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke
benzolalpyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of

osan

and

C3 420

Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin
Amencan Flealth Foundation. Valhalla. NY 10595. USA
by 4-(methylnosamino)

models examined o) date (2). BaP la a protorype of the class
of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco
smoke "(1) We have chosen the A/J mouse because previous

The purpose of this study was to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce
model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced
lung cancer In smokers. Lung tumor induction in A/J mice rapidly and can be readily quantihed and their progression to
and benzolalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated.
individually or in combination. Groups of Cemale A/J mice CI evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg
were treated by either intragastric gavage (i.g.) or by has examined the chemopreventive activities of a number of
intraperitoneal injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP,
and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethylnitrosamine and - dimethylbenzidanthrachnéen (9.10).
either 9 or 19 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the AlJ mouse or evaluate the effects of
forestomach were counted. The ig. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK
proved to be more satisfactory than i.p. administration, (4.1 1,12). Results obtained with the A/) mouse can be replicated
because il avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl isothiocyanate
the Injection site and associated mortality A dose - response (PEITC) is an elfective inhibitor of lung turnor induction by
relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 rat (11,13)
mice killed 9 or 19 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single
treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect to tobacco
of 24 umol of each) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1). The
have been expeeted by extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP, are important
Comparisons of NNK and BaP given individually showed representatives of the lung carcinogens in tobacco smoke (11.
when giv en by the ig. route: i.p. administrations of BaP assess the effects of chemopreventive agents given either
were complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP.
The most favorahle dosing reginien of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to
evaluation of chemopreventive agents appcars to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during
dose of 24 pumol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and
subdoses ig., with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we examined tumor yields obtained
dosing. This reginen induced 10.5 +4.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for
mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen. 8 weeks. followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61
ethyt isothiocyanate, given 2 h prior to each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure '(I This tumor model was employed in a
and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC
tumor formation. reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP.
efficacy of chemopreventive agents against lung cancer Facility. Its purity was establited lq HPLC as >997. BaP (98% purity),
Our goal in this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were
could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained 00 AIN-76A diri containing 5% ourn oil. as prev riously, 2
play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups cf 15 as sammarized la Table I At age 7 weeks. each mouse was
kers: (methylnitrosamino 3-pyridyl)- 1-butanone (NNK") treated b intaperitoneal (ip.) injection or by intragaste gavage (ig) with
and benzolalpyrene (BaP) a NNK is a potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical in 0.1 ml cononsed oil. NNK and BaP were bon
carcinogen with organospecificity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in the 0.1 ml used for treatment Injections and gavages sere carrie
Albreslatlons: NNK. 4-(mashy! initrosamino) Pyddy! -butune; individuat dese was one-cighth of the sotal. Equimolar doses of NNK la ar
Bar. benzolelpyrene: PEITC, pheneihyl isothiocya anale: BITC, benayi BaP were used in most of thr combination groups, bacause the amounts of

ridyl)- I-butanone (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combined

whlch these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given

The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively

of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the
that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK

Most previous studies in the A/I mouse have examined
We sought 01 develop a model which could be used to

5.9 = 5.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely
this study provide a convenlent model for assessing the
inductlon by tobacco smoke carcinogens.

inbibiting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods

NNX 1133 synthesized in the American Heales Foundadon Organic Syethesis
BITC 586) purity) and PEITC (93% (Aund were abtained from the Aldrich
Chrmical Company (Milwaukee. WI). Cottonseed oll was purchased from
Female AJ mice. age 3 weeks. were obtained from The Jackson AJOILIOGET
(Bar Harbor, ME). They were housed under standard conditions in the
The desiga of thr bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1. The mice were divided
out for 8 consecutive weeks. The toral doses are given a Table L Far
NNK and total earcinogenie polyeyelic hydrocarbons in sobacco smoke are

Sigma Chemleal Co. (Si Louis, MO).
described (4).

introduction
to

agents against wo of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought

isothios rait d intriperitoncal, : intragastie gavage.

o Oxford Univenity Press

2721