LOS ANGELES TIMES Sunday, March 20, 1977
SIS3LIVXX00T
*apa L a a la -To judge by the torrent A, protésts the FITad received, a sizable por- tion of the. calorie-counting puclic agrees. Long accustomed 6, a cross firgat criticism from industry and consumer activists, the FDA has been- bésteged by, citizen demands 3 liber- ate saccharin. And moves are afoot in Cangress to- amend the. Food. and.: 46 Drug ACLS huir F k ' 1 t* 2 There 's been H. tremendous. cutcr from all: aver the country," # EDA sspokesman la Washington said: "D ranges from anguish 6 anger.: We ve. "never been this busy." (el a The FDA: for its part: says it a 'only, doing what the law required. nay clause Congress inserted. in the. Drug Act in 1958 says that:1 tobe safe E: it E found. I after BSIST tion of the safethat food additives: F91 cancer in man or animat". ancing of riskmd benefit. Nar does it reduire: the: ban E be: based. a eyidençe of. cancer 4 hamans:
LE - on . charin:
SERASTIC the logic of this a A seem. 6. the: general public, researchers say. that the animal A periments upancwhich such h-maazaz redecisions are baséd do have a sen- sibler rationale- andi. that. they S have adirect-bearing on risk to bu- maris. S - & saitis true, resear reliers acknow riedge; El thattherats 'at the center of this fur- ore consumed each day the saccharin equiralent A. reughly "1,000 cans of : lowicalorie soft drink But they-con- sidèrit misleading-it not dishonast to : thé calorie counell bas, that suggest. this makes the research tirdlevant disparity 8. humans. " 7. who drink oniy one can a cPeole P: a saccharia soft drink" I id dat comparably lower risk of cancer. But :fa population ai. 213 million pecpie, collective bazard could still add. as several thousand cases of blad upto dercancer: Easca P.4.U. scientists note, rat P cert Moreover, ants that. led. the FDA 6 bar
37 BOBEFT GILLETTE Ttmes 46 lence wrter XDoes it maice 5 mse 8. ban a popular food additive 8 be strength of what il E oifsprings eat the additive in boge doses? A1 thinks nat. a trade argani- Ananta comes trom manufacturers oi dietary bas food and drink, spent page newspaper ads.across the counte h berating tho: F ood and Drug Ad- ministration for its decision 6 ban saccharin. Cs the oniyr. nonnutritive-" : - - 2430 sweetener curre atly Ga the market. 32ven the Ev A is willing 3 admit thère's it basic diference between rats and humar a one a ad in the. Wall Street Joarnal: observed. "It's. just another a mple of the arbitrarr mature of big go remment." a
& 21
happens when hundred rats and." L the law- -specifically the Dela- - Calorie Contral Council, Inc. R. - Fag ticod) additive shall be deemed zatim. whose 000'0-$ annual budgat. witich are appropriate for the evaiua- of dallars in the last few days for P-Imy whiduce IThé clause does.not allaw E bal-
: thousands
-
2 a
7035437
0087432
TIMN
