SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.
complaina associaied with the "sick building syndrome

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
questionnaire. The symptoms were more common . build-

In a cross-sectional investiganon in I building, office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validased
were measured on a lincar analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and
Ar the same time. the micro-environment (environmental humidifcation. irrespective of the air of the buildings. A
characteristics in the brearhing zone rather than area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air
samples) à characierized by measuring temper 'Am quality parameters - not described. Skov et al. (LA61) ex-
relarive humidiry, respirable suspended perticulases, CEF- amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern I
bon dioxide, noise level, lighting intensiry, relacive ku town halb and 11 older control buildings. A I ol 1
midiry, and airflow. No relationship I seen berween I was related os a "Neecing" factor (carpets, upholstery.
the degree of symptoms and age, educarion, or duration and horizontal surfaces) . k the "macro-molecular I
of employment at the building or time spent in dhr budld- nent" of dust. They also demonstrated a relationship berween
fun On a daily basis. Starisaically, complaine were the pumber of houn JUads photocopying and using carbonles
significantly more frequent among Sunous men. Envi- Adoo paper and tbe level of complaints. Other studies have
ronmental characteristics associated 1 the increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985)
complaint levels . this group included decreesed airflow and prychodynamic factors (Rowland et al. 1984) coatribute
models, there à 5 association benven respir as- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome b :
pended particulases and the levels of boch mucous I suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertaon et
brane and systemic complaints. Satisfaction 1 d F (1985) were unable to demonstrate 5 measurable dif.
thermal environment e predicted by percepcion of dreft ferences in the concentrations of eavironmental pollatants
R nor clearty contribute to she degree of Jymptoms, berween rooms la a mechanically and a naturally veutileted
I regression models PIP I E compl a building. They studied the rooms with the I
were nor independent of thermal parameners. : try I and used area samples. à et al. (1967) did compl I
inaensiry I also associated I complaints. I strate a relationship between symptoms and both area I
mudies of * * building syndrome should examine ples Buunsea dust and a "macro-molecular" fraction, 1

velociry and increased levelsof respirable suspende par to indoor air quality complaints.

eiculates and dry-bulb "Ammadux & merion

Several studies have antempted to identify the actual

a

I exposures simultaneously and 1 paycho a area samples.

social meases a identify predictors of I .

Area samples in buildings may nor be representative of
the exposures in different points in I rooms. Physical
and sbelving may infuence air currents. Radian beat may

indoor spaces.
INTRODUCTION

characteristics such a windows and

partitions, computers,

Complaints termed the E building syndrome" have kad ol uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally. moet 1
led os numerous investigations in the last 15 years. They am hutants resuh from point sources, or they 1 be diluted a a
thought to occur primarily . newty constructed oftice 1 subject . farther removed from the source. A micro 4
inp and, at kast in the past, -rere thought to be a to vironment around desks and I cubicles may have very
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelen. a different exposure characteristics than tbe macro-enviroe
I variety of causes have been identifed is specife settings. ment of a building la addition, all applied occupational and
inctuding inadequate semperature and relative bumidity coo- environmental bealth research that attempes to relate dose Bo
trol, noise, I vibration. volatike organic compounds beakh effects suffers from the problem that dose la penerally
and formaldehyde. microorpanisms, environmental sobecco measured at several points in time I then extrapolated to
smoke, pesticides, dust. entrainment of vehicke exhaost or allow developmem of exposure classifications over decades
1 I contaminated air and boiler I fibers released à most heakb effects sre measured a a single resuk ol
from duct linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of sampling
A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnepan where the kevel ol symptoms may change not merely trom
et a 1984) panaltins that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to hour. 1 a stratepy must fall.
(Robertson et al. 1985) was unable to identify diflerences la attempted a characterize air-quality parameters . the micro
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (temper- envirooment and set these characteristics a relation to the
ature), relative humidity. air velocity. formaldehyde. or F level of individual complaint at a given point in I This
itive or nepative ions between several rooms . a building report presents results of a crom-sectional investigation ol a
with natural and a building with mechanical ventilacion. problem building using a self-administered, linear I
where both sets of rooms had high levels of complaints Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
i I a Amistant Profenor of Medicine and ol ladustrial and Environmental Heakh Sciences at the Univeruty of
of Medicine Publec Heahh. a I a Director. Enviroomental Heah and Salery, Camepe-Mellon Univeruty, Pirtsburgh. PA.

(Kreiss and Hodpson 1984; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986).
marily to mechanical ventilation. The same dnod ol authors

results in preater than the difference in average samples, a
No investigations in the peer-reviewed litersture I

Schoot
Petaburgh

and