dalm/
JAT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira New York Timer Serrier
wan bought 5.1 billion American AmeHcan cigarette promotion about 08 New Taiwan dollars - made cigarettes last year, ringing became a issue even in receat pack (S2.86) compared with 22
TAIPET The Marlboro COW- dn sales of $119 million. la 1986, trade E betwen the United New Taiwan dollari E. cents) for A boy in his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Staics and Taiwan. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghing from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly is shieng Taiwan' s, deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis town, His picture adoms kiosks percent of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered R ing in Japan are more liberal. Com- "suvid-mams jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted pive out free cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign Television This frenetic, fast-growing GA- cigaretie exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lawed in the United States in 1971. tioe of nearly 20 million poople N because both Taiwan and Japan school students 12, €! years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan amoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long- standiog restrictions. are DOW smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry a label that, year and for the first time, : According to the Brown & Wil- rette companies promote cigaretics roughly translated, says, "For the mubantial number of them - liamsoo Tobeco Corp. exporta of like that? I's O.K. to have them sake of health, don't smoke too made is America, not Taiwan. all American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- much" a warning much milder To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year, re- joy 915, billion trade surplus with than the health-warning labels brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting 5 $1 billion in new sales. the United States. But those people mandaled in the United States. Wacturers have essentially intro la Japan, which has a population are just like robbers. JI you are A Tbe oompanies 13y Amencan ing teen-agers 01 take dn moking, more than OJ perceat last year, thing 3uoin with the way they are cigarettes are made of blended to-
and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
panies can advertise on TV after
our this city, next to posters % a peroent. er of Winston cigarettes.
"They go 01 amusement places to 8:50 P.M. and are now conducting
for most of the growth in American be said recently. "Many scbool- Supumapa of cigarettes was out-
paonp cigarette advertising 00 the of 120 million and where people, ialand, and that has created a furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year. H Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled E American tbe American companies of entic the past year. Tbe market share of The sovermen-administerd dicts that il could grow to is 8. 20 sales pitch. operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992. proneure from Washington. In the hleohol. .cipn cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw have soared, generating much- courage its peadod growth lor American man- laws in way dn
human being. you woo't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan not or much because of the adver- manufactur tising a bocause they are of better quality and taste better. American and bacco and have less tar than Tai- producta their 14y wancse cigarettes, which are not
cigarette their
American cigarettes increased to E vigorously deny there la any- Department of Agriculture pro- ihry have no pians to change American pressure to open their have they pusbed sodo so, they say.
charge the American companies tised, altbough it does now,
botly deny.
from 3 percent 5 1986, and the promoting
bleaded.
Tbey are not allowed to advertixe . small stores where cigarettes are a legislator. tions. Cigarette manulacturers may to amoke, why zines, cach ol whose droulation icl- dom excooda 200,000. young attractive 19-year-ol girla oent ol tbe market. Taiwan à Suuvan short skirts 01 give dut cit posed strict quotas on foreip and then it becomos a habit. It's cigarettes and inposed stift tarifts.
the cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials say tbey resent 00 television or in newspapers. Nor The government agreed to allow markets le producta that éndanger They can advertise only througb others into the business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and posters hung near cigarette racks or year since stilf restrictions on for- "This really burts our feelings, - sold, as well as through promo- a American cigarettes la Taiwan A., tbe United Shau-kong Suates docs not en- also place 120 ada a year in maga- the Unitod States are way down and femalcs are amoking a lor be Before last year, lorcign ciga- and tbe number ol anti-imoking causc of American ada. A bire rettos accouated for less than - per- According 01 U.S. Depart- arettes (roe in nightclubs. k's vory cigarettes, banned imports at the mett ol Agriouture, people B Tal- difficult lor Sunok boys to resist, 70,000 retail outlets licenaed to sell
poople
wacturers at - time when sales in export to LUVANL Younger poople
the
immoral."
Aia rerult, imported ciparette cost
