New York Times March 1, 1963 Page 34
Another Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs to Use It By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pall Mall of Canada, Ltd., the second-larg. est cigarette sompany in that country, contracted yesterday with the Strickman-oundation 01 pay a penny a * royalty for use of the filter invented by Robert L. Strickman. The company, which is X per cent British-owned, but Canadian-managed, sells 12 bil- lion cigarettes a year, very few of them in the United States. The agreement was the second In two days with the founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company, with annual salcs of more than 18 billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. Strickman, was surrendering its rights to the filter to the foundation. The university said et had l"made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering et highly con- troveisial end competitive com- mercial field." Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financlal stake in the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to le last summer by Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set dn on Wednesday by the New Jersey chemist as charitable institution -to ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has received $200,000 in advance royalties. According to Robert > Katz, the unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts cauld eventually bring In about $5 million peartn rogalties. Mr. Katz, a Jawyer who. FI secretary of Seagram's Distil- leries, pies that Rothman's Pall plall of Canada hed been test- ing the. Strickman filter since last August. Wilmat Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman's, said of the device: "We are sntistied that de nothing exists "or a which gives comparelle filtratlon without adversely affecting'the flavor of the cigarette. takes out 'more suspect ele- ments within the cuniext of ac- ceptable flavor, we fcel that as cigarette company
: Clalms Are Disputed The claim that the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ing cigarette flavor has bcen a subject of controversy. Among the most outspoken critics of the filter has beenle Senator Warren G. Magnuson ONWashington, who has con- tended that its claims have been Acatiy exaggerated. Nanou, many governmental and privale health reports by experts have called cigarette tar and hicotine health hazards, Columbia Univesity, in a re- port on thè shickman filter made public un Wednesday, avoided making X conclu- So far no United Stat tes ciga- rette companies are bellaved to be close to a contract for the filter. Experts say that dones- tic companies need not fear competion 5 this country from the Canadien cigarettes because of a 15-cont import duty on each package. PallMallcigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana-! dian concern.
sions.
research.
a
should
