BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
Area stores
SAT
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For tho Delly Camera nors. kids. ker
refercing to the Increased enforce- peirally lur selling tobacco to a ml tried to buy the cigaretles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busl-- Store clerks unlucky enough. OF nesses this week during a crack. ger-caught, were issueda summone doun on selling cigarettes a ml- to appoar ur court. The maximum The sting. conducted on the eve horis E 0025 fine of. the American Cancer Soclety's The Suna involved two tcams. Great American Smokeout, was In- Each included u uniformed omcer. tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain clothes. omcer. and two legal to sell tobacco products to Falrviow High School girts, Who Police targeted gas stations, con: girls' parenis signed a waiver al. vênience, drug, grocery and dis. lowing themlotake part thc. op: "lawhas nevertbeen enforced, said The Juvenlles were told not to JOPInog Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "We're letting the stores know had to show identification.
>
"Couri stores. Until recently, the eratlon. this ic going a happen," ahc sald,
the cigarettes. and, If asked, they (Gce BOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to minors s At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry, 280h SL, one of the girts asked when she Was Lateg the cashler for a pack of Mart mone, ous cald ohe SILM stur boro Lights. OMcer Rob Hauke- JUOP and couldn't attord the ness, 5, plaln clothes, po019 in court costs. HATKeness pou) "01 -the-hehtnd her to witnese thç oongole her, saying she coulu- A placard near the cash regis- the Distriet Attorney to do two a ter read, P.I. ID my own mother. munity ecrvice inatcadof paying clerk asked tn see some identifi- The clorks, not the store owner, cation. The buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the.: she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don't do it a -usiund ed at the license, sel it down on stores or clerks," she said. "Al-: the counter, and sold her the though, when you 000 clerks ciy: Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Police targeted : stepped dn and identified him oloros and clerks la allbur four eelf 03 a police officer, Manka recelved summonses. came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wock'a operation was the: TrailM. I see them ask for an year. ThA first sting, conduoted. E I think they're going to 2 in Soptember, targeted 16 stores: esnt the cale," Haukeness sald. und ST clerks received sum
(From Page 1C)
The clerk at Colony Market,
um-
transaction.
prububly work out a deal with-
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, driver's license, which showed court costs.
cigarettes. summons.
ing, you might think otherwise. sccund tobacco sale stine SIGT
"But they never do."
monses.
