LOS ANGPIES TIES
Los Angeles, California
October 20, 1954
n1
been proved,

haut upon thr premise that hination n' A partirular type
naneetinn hetween riea- in each nl the Three categories
net smoking and disease 2 has alrcady produred 'a sale
Might Take Six Months one it is. so all can be made
Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. 11 not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Carence Cook Litte,
complete statistica! study to chairman of the scientific ad-
date, said that "some say we sisnry bnard and seientie di-
tive evidence before develop- try Research Committee, de-
ing a sale cigarette, but no ies which he helieves wauld
nn has said just what the de- produre some nl "the defni
finitive evidenre wnu'd be." iive evidence" tn which Dr
Hr sand he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In his Talk 1n the Ameriran "We will larkle simultan.
system was more important, line of the industry's research
migh: prove surcessfal in six do not have today 1he experi
months, "wirh iuck," he said menta! evidenre that wi'l nrr-

cigarette IC so. scientific re-
search should prove which
should find one, "since peo-
ple like to smoke cigarettes."
rector o: the Tobarro
seribed the nutlines nl siud-
Tackle Unknewns

Calls
"Safe
Cigarettes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
Is Overwhelming
NEW YORK. Ort, 19 (ILP)

Expert
for

lale L'niversity statistician

should

wait for more defini

Indus.

this virwnoint.

The evidenre connecting cig- Cancer Sneiety meeting. Dr. eously many of the unknowns
arette smoking with both Hammond said the relation- in this field of tobaccn 11s in
lung cancer and heart dis. ship nl rigare:te smoking to relation to human health. à be
ease is "overwhelming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out-
something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitie
once about developing "a safe health. than the relationship findings in an area where
cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to much suggestive work has
cal scientist told the annual find "a safe cigarette" from bren done. The program of
meeting of the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recognizes that a
Tobacco Industry Research tobacen, there are varinus relationshin hetwen en ran-
Committee anancenced some of types nf filters, and there are mental factors, includ line
the details nf : sricatific re- varinua terhn'ques n! euring The most

Cancer Society today.
At the same time the scien-
tific advisory board of the
prarch program

Outlines Described
There are various types of
which in tobaren, he said, and it may

mit scientific conclusions PA.
garding the raune and efert
smokine and lune eancer
important nrort
current lung cancer rase: in
10 medical centers in the :nit
ed States and Canada,

he that some fortuitors rom- cet up was a dinert Xudy -

SOT ANGE LES EXAMINER
Los Ange: les, California
October 20, 1954

It will inelude numerous
studles of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers,
an well an tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. The apecitie research
grants, financed by the TIRC,
will be announced later.

HFALTI

ON TOBACCO
YORK, Oct. 19.-UPH-
A broad atx-polnt study seek
Ing knowledge whether eigarets
or other forms of tobaceo cause
lung cancer or other health baz.
ards was announced today,
It is the first announcement
of a big research proxram
headed by the selentifle ad-
visory board of the Tobacco In
dustry Rese Areh Committee

NEW

(TIRC).

COR TI 14062