WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRIBUNE D. 25,605 S. 49,326 WACO METEOPOLITAN AREA MAR S i963
F.C Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard-. -Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission frona going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette So long as cigarcttes are legal merchandise, it does not sccm right or logical that onc medium of advertising be forbidden the producer while newspapers, magazines, billboards and C ounter displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expectod to review the FCC proposal and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC said it is proposir.g to refuse licenses to broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising becauso of evidence that Burgous is injurioun to hcalth and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals to do as they please so long as they doa't harm ancther. Jit also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if you don't mention something, maybe is won't Congressman Paul Rugers, Florida Democrat, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Coni- merce Commitice, said in reference to the proposed FCC ruld that the Kouatlu had overstepped the bounds of its authority, lle said he doubts that FCC has any right to tell an advertiser what he could not say in his advertisements, Rogers said Congress will take a close Icok at the whole question of regulations on television and radio advertising content, not only as 0) the Federal Communications Commission but in regard to Federal Trade Conunission practices as The stakes involved extend beyond the business of broudcasling. They 08 to the hcart of whe:her government burcaus should be allowcd to oa beyond
advertising.
Hazardous to Your Heulth.
hurt you and will disappear.
well. '
tho limits of due proccss and the law,
