May 16 96. 8:44
P.11
Chicago Tribune
MAY 91 1996
Philip Morris, UST offer plan to curb
tobacco
teen use of
Proposal would prohibit FDA regulation, ban 'loosies' and vending machine salès
By Barbara Sullivaa STAFF WATT TRIBUNE Philip 'orrii Cos. and UST Inc. ons or the Targest t8bacco companies. went on the ollen- sive Wednesday, proposing sweeping legislation to curb teen tobacco use. The proposals, which would include a ban on vending machine and single-cigarette ;sales and Impose curbs on 1 advertising. go further than restrictions sought by the Food and Drug Administration. the companies said. The quid pro quo, however. is that the yaa be prohibited from any regulation of tobacco prod- ucts "It there's FDA involvement. the deal S! not on the table," said Ellen Merio. Philip Morris corporate afTairs. are not meant as a compromise, and restricting tobacco usage. this is a solution. beneficial.
3/1
dnd Maaar
AP peoso
USA senior vice president of Steve Pamish a Philip Morrs Merlo also said the proposals news conference Wednesday. or Orst step toward rapproche- pany and UST is the biggest inett with the government's maker of snuff and chewing mounting push toward regulating tobacco. The two companies "This goes way beyond a com- support from other tobacca promise. Merlo said. "We think companies, said their proposal Merlo said further that the industry fund spen: over a five- proposals are so comprehensive year period to help implement that unilateral action by Philip the legisiation. Morris and UST would not be Some anti-smoking advocates, "We couldn't implement these posals as nothing more than a actions on our own. without leg- blatant smoke screen to keep islation. she said. "Ir only one the FDA out of the picture. Phili Morris. maker of Mari- kids from the blandishments (of
Cos. senior vice president. at a which have not yet received would include a $250 million however. saw the tobacco pro- "They reattee that the FDA is most serious about protecting others. is the tobacco industry). and they SEr CIGARETTTS. PACE 2
or OMI companies participated. there would be no impact. boro cigarettes anong the world's ' biggest tobacco com-
