HKO2228112 SASTA BAKBARA SAN14 F
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO - - - BA. 2 - - - 7 : a H VIm 2 IAPAKIMI 7 : : AINN January 3, 1977 Dr. Willian H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Rescarch rourddttinn 715 Kuir Lands Visto May La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. fishean: and Salk.
4 - a 9 I A 1 N
a - IA : MIONVA 2
We are 1ooking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of the La Jolia rescarch cocdunity. In particular, the activities of the la Jolla Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzynes should fit in well with ongo ing activities noi only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establisnrent of a focal center for rcsearch proorams on oncodevelopmental prublems is particularly irely. It will be 0! o:at potential importance for pulling tcgetter vork by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, characteriztaion and doterrination of the sionificance of hurian oncodevelopmiettal antigens such as alphafeteproteir and Carcinorsbryonie antigens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship of increased seruia concentrations of ArP to precalignant lesions or carcinoger exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model svsters clearly derion- strate tne 1 anirals pasocxo to hejatocarcinouens have elevated serum AFP concen- trations prior to developrant of mslionant tumers. It is hoped that syster? tic study of human scra frum difforert aources will determing if serum AFr conc.n- In addition, the role of env ironnental fac tors such as hormoual influences on the production of oncodevelojmmntaa gene prp-kss can be further explored in different sy: tens. Such data inplies that (ke prod:u tion cf ohcooevelopmenta gene product, by turor cells is net a fixed property of a given tumor but is Hr look fon:ard to working with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundat fon in furthering research in the important subjeri of oncodeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoger exposure.
subject to enviroumenta controls.
expression. Best regards, Stewart Sell, N.D. Professor SS/nb
