Newsday (New York, NY)
May 1, 1998, Friday, ALL EDITIONS
VIEWPOINTS: Page A57

BIG TOBACCO CAN'T CUT TEEN SMOKING

By Alan Brody. Alan Brody, a marketing journalist. is the author of : Cigarette Seduction."

THE TOBACCO industry may be guilty of many big lies, but Congress and the public health community may be
developing a big lie of their own: that the cigarette companies can undo the phenomenon of teenaged smoking.
As Stanton Glantz, author of "Cigarette Papers," wrote: "The tobacco companies know how to get kids smoking and,
But the issue is bigger than tobacco companies Because the settlement talks with the government are based on the
tobacco companies' supposed omnipotence, the likely failure will create a whole new layer of corruption all the way
from illegal sales 1 fly -by-night tobacco companies to the potential for more damaging products to enter the gap.
Adults tend to have a poor memory of ther own youth and why they themselves became smokers. It wasn't because
the tobacco companies marketed to them. It was because they marketed to adults and, as teenagers, they desperately
A lively grandmother in her 80s confided to me that she started smoking at 10 and quit at 40. That means she began
smoking in the 1930s when cigarette ads were still focusing on tobacco leaf qualat and Turkish flavor. There were no
ads for teenagers and certainly none for pre-teens In fact, the country barely paid any attention to teens,
Conventional wisdom has it that advertising and marketing are responsible for selling tobacco. It helps. But does it
cause smoking? The absence of advertising i' Finland and, for a while, in Italy showed that cigarettes sell just fine
The etiology of smoking runs deeper into the realm of mystery than legislaton and public health officials may care to
venture. But that is truly where the allure has its origins. Teenagers aren't responding to ads nearly 8 much as they are
Since we as a society have taken no steps to fill a gap in coming-of-age rituals common in other cultures, guess what
industry bas come to occupy this role? Kids seek a magic path to the "real heart" of adulthood. They will accept danger
but they want belonging and a kind of personal guide, the mystical amulet popular in myth. Cigarettes offer this, That
Wben teenagers were invited to tell Congress why they smoke, one girl said she was a nonsmoke: until she watched a
talk show where experts cited depression as a reasons teenagers smoked. "So that's what you do!" said the girl, who
have no objection to taxing the tobacco companies or throwing a few perjurers in the hoosegow But the demand for
smoking is a phenomenon that is not covered by the proposed legislation and both the tobacco companies and the public
health groups are going to be left with an embarrassing and costly predicament. As the European experience has shown,
raising prices works for a while and then kids have a way of readjusting. A greater fear, as one teenager put it in an
interview with an American Cancer Society worker I spoke with: "if you make them so expensive, we'll just go on to
In this politicized environment, it is easy to believe that legislation can make magic. Or that the tobacco companies
are solely responsible for the rise in smoking. When the Centers for Disease Control announced that smoking had
increased 30 percent .n six years, they were quite pleased because the implication is that the tobacco companies are to
blame. But this was also during the most hostile media period tobacco has ever faced. Newspapers, TV networks and
even magazines that once quivered at the thought of Josing cigarette ad dollars now thumb their noses, knowing drug

given proper economic motivation, they will know how to stop kids from smoking.

wanted to be adults.

without ads.

responding to their own demands of adjusting to the tribulations of growing up.

they are about life and death only adds to their "spirit power.'
apparently had been feeling depressed, and she began smoking.

other drugs.