DALLAS MORNING NEWS Dallas, Texas April 14, 1954
Tobacco Firms Ask New Cancer Studies NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing growers and tobacco Industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers. toonal" statements linkdng smoking Among those quoted by the com. and lung cancer have given a one- mittee was the National Cancer sided picture of the relationship ot Institute of the United States Gov- cigarettes and bealth and called ernment, port that the which snid in a 1953 re- research to estab- not been established. Several lish the basic cause of the disease. ot the institute's scientists aiso The tobacco industry research were cited. committee issued a booklet 003- Runyon Others quoted were the Damon previously published state- more research, and ments by thirty-six cancer author cer Surgeon Dr. Max Chicago Can- who ities doubting or derying claims said a few sensitive persons Cutler, may by other cancer experts that tobac- deveiop lung cancer partly because The earliest, whitten in 1923, sald conclusion of a direct relationship there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientific apd none that would produce turnors. hazardous." The most recent; dated last March "It smoke in the lungs were a 16, said much more research must sure-fire cause of be done before causes of lune can- have had it long ago," cancer, the cer or any other kind of eanoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report Little, The tobacco committee, formed Memorial Laboratory, Bar Har- 5 January to combat mounting bor, Maine. charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited experts at the up of nearly every major eigarette University of Texas School of Medi- nanufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Lile Insur
for exhaustive taining
had
cause of lung cancer Fund, which called for of smoking but that to accept the
8 causes lung cancer.
we'd all
can be establisbed.
director of the Roscoe B. Jackson ance Company and British authar- ities. Neariy all those quoted agreed that no conclusions çould be reached until a absolute cause for lung cancer has been established The report was described by an industry spokesman as an "in- terim" statement, pending an- nouncement of the choice of a prominent scientist to supervise basic cancer research to be f- nanced by the industry. That scien- tist will decide how the industry's cancer-research money is to be spent. No date has been set for his At the last count, the cormitteee said; there were more than 830 cancer United research grants 5 the States alone, "any one of which might produce evidence to unlock the secrets of lung cancer,
selection.
-
