STRICKMANFILTER WINS 2D CONTRACT Another Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs to Uselt By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pall Mall of Canada, "PI the second-larg- est cigarette sompany in that country, contracied yesterday with the Strickma.N@oundatiin to pay a penny a pack royalty for use of the filter invénted by Robert "1 Strickman. The company, which is 30 per cent British-owned, but Canadian-managed, sells 12 bil- lion cigarettes a year, very few o: them in the United States. The arreement was the second In two days with the founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company. with annual salcs of more tian 8! billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement) that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. Strickman, was surrendering its rights to the filter to the foundation. The university said Mt had "made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering a highly con- troversial end competitive com- mercial fieid. . Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financlal stake in the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to it last summer by Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set dn on Wednesday by the New Jersey chemist as a charitable institution 0). ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has received $200,000 in advance royalties. According to Robert > Katz, the unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts cauld eventually bring -n about $5 million a rearrn royalties. Mr. Katz, a Jawyer who. Is secretary of Seagram's Distil- leries, said that Rothman's Pall' nfall of Canada ted been test- ing the. Strickman filtor since last August. Wilmat Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman's M said of the device: C "We are sntisfied that nothing exists to y which gives comparclle fittration without adversely affecting the flavor of the cigarette. : takes out 'mere padsns ele- ments withia the coniext of ac- ceptable flavor, we fcel that as cigarette company should try -
New York Times March 1, 1968 Page 34
1
A
M Claims Are Disputed The claim that the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ing cigarette flavor has bcen - subject of controversy. Among the most outspoken eritics ôf the filter has beeniF Scnator Warren G. Magnuson oN Washington, who has con- tended that its claims have been eeatly exaggerated. Nn04L, many governmental and privale health reports byl. experts habe called cigaretter tar and nicotine health hazards, Columbia University, in a re- port on thè Shickman filter made public on Wednesday, avoided making ayy conclu- So far no United States ciga- rette companies are belieyed 01 be close to a contract for the filter. Experts say that domes- tic companies need not ferr competion in this country from the Canadien cigarettes because of a 15-cent import duty on each package. Pall Mall cigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana-! dian concern.
sions.
rescarch.
R -
