LOS ANGPIFS TI'ES
Los Angeles, Californio
October 20, 1954
E been proved,
lale 1nivvrrsity

harrl upon thr premise that hination n' a partirular type
nneetion hetveen riea in each nf "he three rategories
smoking and disease ha: has alrcady produred 'a safe
Might Take Six Months ene 1 is. so all can be made
Dr. a Cuyler Hammond that way. 1 not, the research
who was in charge of the most Dr. Clrrrnce Cnok Lite
compiete statistica! study to chairman of the scientifi ad-
date, said tbat "some say we visnry bnard and seient'fi di-
should wait for more defini rector o: the Tniarro Indus-
ing a safe cigarette, but no ies which he helieves would
nne has said just what the de prndure some nf "tee defni
finitive evidence wmid be." tive eviderre' in weich Dr
: san he "took issue" with Hammond referred.
In hie 1alk 1n the Ameriran "We wiil tackle
system was more important, line of the

Calls
Safe
Cigarettes
Reports Smoking
and Cancer Link
is Overwhelming

cigarette OS:I seiettifi re-
search should prove which
should find
"since
one,
peo-
ple like to smoke cigarettes.
trx Resrarch Committee, de-
seribed the outliees ni stud-
Tackle Unknewns
research
industry's
program "We seek definitive

Expert
for

atatistician

tive evidence before develop-

NEW YORK Ort. 61 (TP this irwnoint

The evidence connecting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eously many of the unknowns simultan
arette smoking with b 0 - h Hammond sair the relation- in this feld of tobacen use in
lung cancer and heirt dis- ship of rigarette xmoking to relation to human health, te
ease is "ovrrw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out-
once about develoning "a safe health. than the relationship fndiing in an area where
cigarette." a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to murh suggestive work has
cal scientist told the annual fidd : safe eigarette from bren done. The program nf
Tobacco Industry Research tnbacen, there are varinus relationshrp hetween rrv ron-
Cimmittee ananunced some of types R. Riters, and there are mental factors, inrlnd i a
the details nf it seientife re varinus terhnuques nf euring The most

something should be done at from the standpoint of public

the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recngnizrs tha: we
prove surcessfal in six do not have today the experi-
months, wirh ktck," he said menta! evidenee that will prr-
ie toharen, he paid, and it may pet was important prrcett

meeting cf the American migh:
Cancer Society today.
At the xame time the scien-
tiee advisory board of the
srarch program * h

Outlines Described
are
There varinus types nf
he thar some fortuitoss rom- up
LOS ANGFIES EXAMINER
los Ange les, California
October 20, 1954

mit scientific enncl:sions rn.
garding the raure anri rFrrs
smnkire and lune eancer
a dirre: suud nf
eurrent lung cancer rase: a
10 medical centers in "he : n
ed States and Canada.

It will Include numerous
studies of humans, including
emotional habits of smokers,
as well as tests on animals.
Only the main broad aspects
of the research were disclosed
today. The apecirio research
grants, financed aq the TIRC,
will be announced later.

HEALTHSTUDY
NO TOBACCO
NEW YORK, Oct. 19. -
A broad sbx-point study seek
Ing knowledge whether eigarets
or other forms of tobacco cause
lung cancer or other health haz-
ards was announced today.
It is the first announcement
of a big research proxram
headed A9 the sclentifle ad.
visory board R the Tobacco In.
dustry Research Committee

(TIRC)

COR TI 14062