Genetic Epidemlology 5:265-275 (1988)
Estimating Genetic Parameters of Survival Distributions: A Multifactorial Model
Joanne M. Meyer and Lindon J. Eaves
Department of Human Genetics, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond For: 3 number of genetically influenced illnesses. age ofonset is correlated between relatives. in some cases, age of onset also serves as an index of an individual's inherited liabiliry to ue illness. Typically, survival models for age of onset distri- butions do not allow for these effects. We have used the gamma distribution as the basis of a model which specifies genetic variability in age of onset. Specifically, we aliow uhe hazard frequency parameter of the gamma distribution to be a under various gamua models indicate that age of onset correlations may be strikingly different from correlations .s liability. Maximum likelihood estimation procedures were used te obtain parameter estimates from simulated data seus and os determine whether it is possible to discriminate between gamma processes of different order. The results for 1,000 pairs of rwins (500 monorygotic and 500 dirygotic) gave parameter estimates that were fairly accurate but that decreased in precision as the order of the gamma process increased. We discuss the effect chis may have uo inferences made about age of onset. Key words: age of onset correlations, survival models, gamma distribution
monotonic function of an individual i inherited
io an illness. liabiliry
rhmmo
Simulations
INTRODUCTION
Genetic analyses of illnesses and behaviors showing a variable age of onset require a knowledge of the cumulative probability of onset by given ages. Some approachès [Weinberg, 1915; Stromgren, 1938; Risch, 1983) derive this probability from prior age of onset distributions. Others (Elston, 1973; Heimbuch et al., 1980; Risch, 1983] estimate parameters of a cumulative age of onset distribution from the data. When the data allow its use, the Jarter method is more appealing since specific
Reccived for publication January 11, 1988; revision sccepted Apri122, 1988.
Address reprine request te Joanne Meyer, Department of Human Geneties, Box 33 Medical College of
Virginia, Richmend, VA 23298. 0 1988 Alan R. Liss, Ine.
