4458

Peptide Hormones. Growth Factors. and
Soma H (ed): Placenta: Basic Research for Clinical Applicanon
Int. Conf. on Placenta. Tokyo. 1990. Basel. Karger. 1991. pp 105-114
Isolation of a Xenobiotic Metabolizing
Cytochrome P-450 (P-4505OK) with
No Aromatase Activity from Placental
Microsomes of Both Cigarette-Smoking and
Yashio Osawa. Tadavoshi Higashiyama. Kenji Shimizu'
Endocrine Biochemistry Deparment. Medical Foundation of
Buffalo Research losurute. Buffaoo. N.Y. USA

Placental Proteins

Nonsmoking Mothers
Nobutaka Yoshida

COPY

FILE

The presence of different monooxygenase activities has been docu-
mented in buman placental microsomes. The predominating cytochrome P-
450, that of androgen aromatase, catalyzes the biosynthesis of estrogens (1).
Aromatase P-450 has been tbe object of numerous studies to determine its
mechanism of action and to purify it (2, 3). Gough et a [4) reported the
presence of another enzyme system which catalyzes the hydroxylation of
xenobiotic substances. It has also been reported that a placental cytochrome
P-450 is responsible for the hydroxylation of benzo(a)pyrene via aryl hydro-
carbon hydroxylase [5-7). The low content of the responding cytochrome p.
450 in human placenta and instability during purification have made it
dificuut to isolate any other active P-450 enzyme. As a side beneft gained
from our procedure to purify and characterize catalytically active aromatase
P-450 "()) we found a fraction from the immunoaffinity chromatography
which showed a high level of xenobiotic activity with little contaminating
aromausee activity. Through the use ofconventional puriticttion procedures,
we obtained a xenobiotically active P-450 with no aromatase activity
Previous studies on aryl hydrocarbon bydroxylase activity have demon-
strated higher leveis of this activity in smokers but not in nonsmokers (8, '(6
'Postdoctoral Rescarcb Fellows on leave from tbe Department of Obstcincs and

Gynecology. Okayam Univeruty Medical Scnool. Okayams. Japan.

PUBLICATIONS

028242