WACO, TEXAS NEWS-TRIBUNE D. 25,605 S. 49,326 WACO METROPOLITAN AREA MAR 9 1963
F.C Oversteps Authority In Zeal to Guard-- Whom? Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal Communications Commission froni going through with its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it dnes not scem right or logical that ono medium of advertising be forbidden the producer w hilc newspapers, magazines, billboards and C ounto cr displays are allowed to continue hawking the product. Congress is expected 1 review the FCC proposal and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires Junc 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the worning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be The FCC said it is proposing to refuse Jicenses 03 broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising because of evidence that smoking is injurious 5 health and the FCC has an obligation 1 protect the public intercst. Thiis is nibbling at onc corner of an issue that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger than the Congress: the right of individuals 0) do as they please 50 long as thcy doa't harm another. It also is a good example of the misguided philosophy that if nok don't mention something. maybe de won't Congressman Paul Rogers, Hlorida Democret, and chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com- merce Committcc,, snid in reference 1 the proposed FCC rulc that the ngency had overstepped the bounds of its authority. He said he doubts that FCC has any right to tell an advertiser what he could not say in his advertisements. Rogers said Congress will take a close Icok at the whole question of regulations on television and radio advertising content, not only as to the Federat Communications Commissioon but in regard to Federal Trade Commissioo praclice: as The stakes involved extend beyond the busincss of broadcasling. They 03 to the heart of whe:her government bureaus should be allowed to go beyond
advertising.
Hazardous to Your Health.
hurt you and will disappear.
well. 2
tho limits of due proccss and the law,
