HERALD STATESMAN 0 41.321-S. 41.500 NEW YCRK GTY VETROPOLITAN AREA
Smoking and health Knowing
start?
the that the population of who women sometime after World War with the malignancies of he observed. ihe smokes. smoking, when "There was a time lung cancer heard of, in men as women. Smoking is the sin- gle most important disease. in the rise of the The American Cancer Society's publication, aret Smoking and Lung Cancer, has an easily-un- derstood explanation.
we :
risks, why do
ByJOANN UNDERCOFFLER "You' 've come a long way, Baby!" the cigaret ad exults. "Baby" is seen as the American woman, svelte and smoking, making it in the marketplace right along with her smoking brothers. She has, indeed, come a long way. Way back when she didn't have the voté and Mt was considered unla- dylike in the extreme to smoke, she didn't have lung cancer either. Women today are falling victim to lung cancer at a rate Dr. J. Wister Meigs calls "epidemic" in the of the American Medical Connecticut, he points out,
"There is no question tion of this stuff is what Dr.
of advertising ning cigaret telèvision. In a 1969 sur- cent vey, 87 per reported television anti-smoking Today, only 48 per cent en- this of an- counter- type and magazines smok- newspapers portray sexy, healthy, and well dressed. Dr. Berenzweing and his- "We're trying to figure out some way to get people cut =t out, he said. subtle kind of would psychological work.. I sure would do Thé Task Force report the op., ment" and your 'wnn thing" phenomenon. these with tbe hard fact that smokers arè- and
Bèrenzweig is talking began smoking about. Ask any pathologist on lung specimens under a mi-" him was almost un- A 1976 STUDY by Yan- nouncement. "I the well kelovich, Skelly and White meantime, as for the American Cancer factor Society's Task Force on To- ers as young, bacco and Cancer brought forth some disturbing attractive "An- trends among teenage girls and young women. In the teenage girl smokers grew cern. from 22 to 27 per cent. a fig- ure adding up 8 half a mil- These are not girls to
II is beginning to turn dn who has seen hundreds of having seen or héard an the lung associated with croscooe.. Ask whether spot In the past four weeks.
:wwering the Most-Often- years between 1969 and colleagues regard these 'Asked Questions about Cig- 1976, the percentage of paradoxes with great con-
"NORMALLY, particles lion girls age 13 and up. tubes, it reads. "This lin- "very put together.
old "be any
Sept. 5 issue of the Journal inhaled with. the air we. smoking for status, the re- "They hear doesn't the same do Association. In the state of cous lining of the bronchial cially at ease, confident, good. There must some lung cancer in women than constantly rarrying parti- among young women have think probably peer it pres- best. Why these grim statis- like structures called cilia, (from 34 to 36 per cent) in grim picture.' CIGARETS, that's why. the ratë of 1,000 times a the number of heavy smok- pointe two reasons teen-
breathe fall onto the mu- port states; they. are- s0-: things and it
1975 figures show more ing acts like an escalator, men in the 35-to-44 age cles -upward by. the- whip-
Although
smokers move that
group. tics?, Those jitters-quelling; habit-forming, throat- seratching little villains are almost as popular with. womed today as they are tion in most.' with men, and the medical community that agrees lung cancer is the result: of smoking, It took cigaret about re- 30 years for searchers' and physicians down the to pin blame, but today they say there is ou getting around it. Marc Berenzweig Dr. beads the public education committee of the Westches- ter Division of the Ameri- can Cancer Society. As a cancer specialist (oncolog- ist), he is deeply con- TIMN 274642
"ing action of small, hair- increased only slightly Otherwise a a pretty minute. Inhaled cigaret- èrs Famong them (more agers L - young women smoke slows or stops the than a' pack a day) has, smoke tthe "all-perva- action of the cilia and thus grown from 51 to 61 per sive sinoking environ-
which' normally move at" the same period of time,
impairs the cleansing ac-. lungs that need it cent, Anyône who has éver
the report revealed. THE MYSTERY IS why they smoke
atall. The Task Countering
more than 80 per cent of used a fiter, eigaret holder- Force report showed that actually in the minority
(the common joke is, both teenagers and young with emphasis on the im- "Staying away. from ciga- women are well aware of portance of independent rets? & has seen what hap- the risks they are courting. thinking physical pens to those little erystals They have been exposed in the filter after only one to classroom lectures and being might the. possibly 7 pack of smokes. They be- films on the dangers of against felt. cigaret, There is an come black with gunk, and smoking. The subject searchers added while the filter traps some comes up in news reports women appeal of this mess, it doesh't get constantly. The Task Force, it all. A 20-year accumula- report states that the one pregnancy; their children is important
well- work' for. the young contemplating the health of WE CONDUCTED an in- smokers among our. eol-
most dominant countervail- them. to force awareness of, ing television anti-smoking commercials has been sharply
reduced because of formal survey of former the cutback in free match- leagues and found one com- ing time following the ban- 'mon element - - one way or
cernéd..
37703
