BOULDER DATLY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
a a A
Area stores
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For the Delly Camera nors. kids. ka:
referring to the increased enforce- penalyy lur selling tobacco_to. ml- tried to buy the cigarelles. The
mont.
Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky OFQ8nous nesses this week during a crack- get'caught were issued asuumonn down on selling cigarettes to mE- to appoar 51 court. 1 The maximum The sting. conducted on the eve noris 0OZS.R Tine of. the American Cancer Soclety's The cting involved two tcams. Oreat American Smokcout. was In- Each included u uniformed 'occer tended to educate clerks that it's il- a piain ciothes onicrr. and two legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School sirts, Who Police targeted gas stations, con: giris" parenis signed a waiver al- vênience, drug, grocery and dis- lowing themlo Tako partin thc.op: "lww has never beer enforced, said The "juvenlles were told not to Jopinog Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "We're letting the stores know had to show identification.
"count slrres. Unul recently, the eratlon. this ic going to happen, ehc said,
the cigarettes. and, if asked, they (Sce DOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores :
- :
for
sales
cigarette (From Page (OT
to minors The clerk at Colony Market,
At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began to cry, 28uh Sly one of the girts asked when she was ssted sum- the cashier for a pack of Mart mons, ous cald n wus a stur: a boro Lights. oiicer Rob Hauke- "dent and couldn't pioge tne ness, In plain clothes, stood In court costs. HAukeness poU - "iina-hehind her to witness thc Tongole her, saying she could: A placard near the cash regis- the Distriet Attorney to do cam -. ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice instradof paying No 'ai No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, clerk asked tn sèe some identif- The clerks, not the store Thc buyer produced lerr ert or manugers, have to pay the.. driver's license, which showed court costs. she WAS only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l du kt to cd at the license, sct it down on stores or clerks, she said. punish- and sold her the though, when you see clerks Afier they left, Haukeness Roulder Police targeted 15: stepped dn and identified him storrs and cler ks alailbur four eelf a3 a police officer. Manka received summonses. came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wock'a I see them ask for an year. The Arst sting, conducted. E I think they're going to z in September, targeted 16 stores: fuse the cale," Haukeness sald. und $7 clerks received Rum
transaction. cation. counter. the cigarettes. summons "When "But they never do."
prubably work out a deal-iith-
à oWT: "Al-:
ing, you might think otherwise. cry: operation was the. punass tobacco sale stine this:
monses.
