NEWS
MIAMI HERALD October 27, 1960 Teens Get Nicotine Warnings A campaign to woo Dade County teenagers away from smoking la under way bere as part of a natlon-wide effort of the American Cancer Society. By working through schools and youth groups, the soclety hopes 9 persuade a large pro- portion of the nation's young people that amoking may Jead 8 cancer. - Key wrapon In the : m . paign, l a rimm strip detalling thr r against tobacen, It I aiready I shown te - : enth graders In 15 schools $ edurational telesiaion, and wil 1 breadeant tn minth Kradn acience students i the apring. The seventh-grade directed è teacher Bil program, Evans, included a panel discussion 5 which students directed ques- tions at Dr. Francis N. Cooke, representing the society. "Teechers I have talked to agree that although smoking ls not a serlous problem at the seventh grade level, these stu- dents are approaching the age when the problem will be, faced," Erene siid Maba value a the Nimstrips à that = gives students - logkaal argument with whleh tthey roald refue 3 . : - . when enrouraged by tb arrele et friends," be I a fim strip is also being ahmnn "lvve to senior bis h achools in the county.
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA October 9, 1960
Education Cuts Youth
-e Fag I through a teenage at the Lagu. Mar Hotel I doauu
4 A
Habits program i the high schools.
American eigaret moling can b reduced R k cent These statistics vere presenled Saturday 4 Walter G. 1 director of publie education for the American Cancer Sociely, here for the Florida Division, ACS, annual meeting I said the € I progrm was directed at leenagers as - I fer -ewbing I becsmme d the sodlty's eeevietion tatt smoking 1 a i el fatal lung 2 proipects of reducing cigaret mokinng b one-fifth were pbnn in a pilot program conducted y 2.000 high acheoi students at Purtiand, Ore., I 1 I d a Bordrnts I parents I wee mort lkely de 1 Smoking increased in d successive bigh school grades. Among boys participating in the Oregon arvvey 143 pes cent payous as freshmen, 12 per cent : sopbemores. 3111 per eent as juniars, end 34 : - A correspond- ing figures for girl stodents vere 46 per cent, 10.6 per cent, - or the studrts. 2s per cent of d boys mmoknd regularty = lesst onre . 1 as ddd 116 per cent al the girt . Education programs againat smoking reduced the mumber ol new amokers sroong boys from 1 per eeit te 1.7 & cent, and beginning giri mokrrs from M4 a t.r PROGRAM EFFECIIVE James mid & figures projected E - four-year periid indicaled that R per eent d bigh school syap could b deterred from amoking through tee ACS educational progrm The stddy M 1 perraaa that the moet dfactive approach war in showing F leng term allect a mooinn.. lerving the decision s the E A Least ellective, he related : the emmll instruction not J I As part e a anti-emoiing education progri.. a a has I a Aim srip iheutrrting allects a r E for ccreming a N school clasrrooss.
aesue a égaret pabit:
-
E per cent and 21 per cent.
per cent.
2
a MULLEN ee0ooo 62 X
