SYMPTOMS AND THE IN3INNOBIAN3-O8DIN IN THE
SICK BUILDING AWOHGNAS A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D.. M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.L.H.
complainss associared with the "sick building syndrome
Ar same tmme themicro-environmeet (environmental

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT
the

et al. (1967) investigared the frequency of complaints in 43
questionnaire The symproms were more commos .8 baild

In a cross-sectional invesngation 5 & building. office buildings built over the last $ years with a validased
were meacured on a lincar analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and
characteristics 5 the breaching zone rather than area direct relationship berween the level of complaints & air
samples) & characierized by measuring temperanure, quality parameten : not described. Skov et a (1987) :
relacive humidiry, respirable suspended "mppouddd car. amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern 1
bon dioride, noise level, lighaing insensiry, relacive ha town halls and 1 older control buildings A level ol 1
midiry, and airflow. No relarionship a seen benwer toms was related 8 a "Reecing" factor (carpets, upbolserry.
the degree of symptoms and age. educarion. or duration and horirontal surfaces) sdd the "macro-moleculer I
of employment at the building or time spent 5 ter 1 nent" of dust. They aiso demonstrated a relationshio berween
Sy on a daily basis. Starisrically, complainss were the number of houn spent pbotocopying and using carbonles
significandlly more frequens among smoking I Envi- hdoo paper and tbe level of complaints. Other stdies have
rommenial characteristics associased 1 d increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985)
complairu levels in this group included decreased airflow and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute
models, chere was an association berveen respirable au- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome by mea-
pended particulases and the levels of boch mucous mem- suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertoo et
brane and ryssemic complaints. Satirfaction wish * F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif.
thermal environment e predicted by perceprion of dreft ferences is the concentrations of environmental pollutants
R nor clearty contribuue to she degree of rymptoms,, berween rooms in a mecbanically and a naturally veutileted
alshough regression models did suggest t complaines building. They studied the rooms with the f complaint
werr nor independent of chermal parameters. - I I and used area samples. Skov et d (1967) did demoo-
inaensiry MEs also associated I complaints. J strate a relationship between symptoms and both area -
mudies of & sick building ryndrome I cramine ples measuring dust and - "macro-molecular" traction. 1

humidification. irrespective of the

-

abe of the buildings. A

velociry and increased levels of respirable nuspenddd par. 9 indoor air quality complaints.

riculases 7 dry-bulb semperanure. In regression

Several studies have attempted to identify the actual

I exposures simultancously and include prycho .s area I

L meanures 9 idenaify predictors of complaints in

Area samples is buildings may not be representative of
d exposures is different points in single rooms. Physical
characteristics such : windows and partitions, computers,
and sbelving may infuence air currents. Radiam I may

indoor spaces.
INTRODUCTION

Complaints sermed the E building sydrrome" have lead 0I uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, most pol-
led to pumerous investigations .s tbe last i5 years. ê are hutants resuk from point sources, 2 they will be diluted I a
thought to occur primarily is newty constructed I I subject -n farther removed from the source. The micro 4
& and, at least in the past, were thought to be due 9 vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelen. a different exposure characteristics than tbe macro-environ-
1 variety of causes have been identibed .s specifi setting. ment of a building is addition. all applied occupational and
including inadeouate temperature and relative bumidiry 8 environmental bealth rescarch that attempes OI relate dose to
trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds beakh effects sufler from the probiem that dose is penerally
and formaldehyde. microorganisms, environmental sobecco mearured at several points in time I then extrapolated to 1
smoke, pesticides, I entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow development of exposure classifications over decades
spent and contaminated air and boiler fumes, fbers released € most healt effects are measured as - I 1 of
from duct linins. and otfcc machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Wbere the variability of sampling
A proup of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms kru change not merely trom
et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to bour, such a stratep most fail.
(Robertson et al. 1985) : unable os identify diflerences in artempted to characterize air-qualiry parameten in the I
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (semper- enviroament and stt these characteristics in relacion a d
ature). relative humidiry. sir velocity, formaldebyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at a gienn point in I This
itive or nepative ions between several rooms i a building report presents resul of a cros-sectional investigation of a
with patural and - building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using a sel-addmnnsstrred. lincar analog.
where both - of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge sel--assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
E I e Aminam Profemor of Mediane and ol laduscrial 3 Emvironmental Heakh Soences at the Univerury of Pisburg Schoobs
of Medicine and Publc Heahh. P. Celee a Director, Environmental Heakh & Salery. Camepe-Mellon Univeruty, Pittsburgh. PA.

(Kreiss and Hodpson 1984; Hodpson and Kreiss "(9061
marily to mechanical ventilation. The same group of authors

results .n greater than the difference is average samples, aad
No investigations in % peer-reviewed litersture I