Polluted tata

by Samuel S. Epstein
The auhor surveys the rerrr of
indusi ari-generated data
Eualamg evdemm e shums 2 constramms un data
frem Kum m.ndeuua 1 biased mterrretation ma
mpulatmm. suppresmm and : lo outright de-
Mtm tmm-are (mmmempla e espeiiall when
prohtahle ie hmloger arr mohed. Alarmengh.
Mnh esdem e I jusnhes strog reservations as 0I
th slllus of Mr data developed by institumons uT
indn aluals whmr ermmmm intetrus are dueik or
Informattm : the uuru of C rnmmm and
pulan al pmerr Dennonimakinng at all level ef gm.
ermmen sunldmaad the aaalalshts of a buds of in
lormatmon, SNI the has of - hik h the relaiie merits
al ahernar poln ir an he anah red and considered.
1f thn mlln matre et data base . tar nehed ur imal
xl. then whater de NRMI JTE tea hed auus alsor
ualun E uIs alal, threatemng the laban ol demm
à metshr Imng tull ol all beneht and 1ih
$ en whn i mun tegulaters des 1RRm are based.
frem ihe mdlurrres themehes bemg
rd Thee data are eithes generated and mterpreted
turrs and HnNIISER under comt. 4 le mudusn

ukhrrs ih alles ted

MIri gmemmmet
HmmE

- . au * u * t wenhe,

tegulat.

Buh inte this preees #6 a sarre of sonsulamss
muitutes, whun stamp uf apprnall prenides the

In m-lune 7 mmtte stall M In ommer a lawna generall from presigmms uneruurrs or reranh
In-lunve wentt sall : 1xI mmmune to sol dara wnh an addmmaal manile ef authority Thr
A RHI and sal mnv HE1I5 presures from revarh identer of these consulann dre often hidden new
aml devhmmmen and mur kemn departments. an onk frem the puble bu alu from ther mwi unse
u les hun then prodo a pII rw mtn -n MIR at insttutmm Themduurul merrsss ef thewe
ueh Br gommet 1al lalon. atorrs and unrriuee E wher adtmr and rxpe committees thev SH.
wplen Imh lumn his ler - wll ned a the upen i i dev hnd ar usmal mammained mi onhdemuul
market, a pia IR a hardh umnsue wsth the ethn h'e Irts kmk at a len rave hnte in draw n frmm
- mtt 4 1- alu mn mmmme tes ungoken prraur Comsrrmnr IN thr Cirnraatn el Dele
mml BuS puedlm mfeu matmn E mtei prettmm the mewt smmmm problem wab mndurrall gen
umune E - ah hai aie prtened a tlu mntrirsnd erated daaa n a Imn mulles Deeph u - emed In
mhlun rrnn theug thr Inmed thr malrgun e daa sulumttedd In 1967 te th
met hkrh - retie shet -rm,, rath 1 amd Dhu Admamttattn FF FDAI In indurr
Sumel 4 - pae & 14 tet - moppalt undrn pomm fedri addane petam a wmall suhmmred H the
hll 1 a nt the E el 2 Hratl a wnrah 1 Ie Fewd and Dug Admmmtatte har hern Hn otte

e knsed the
to agen IEs

-

nrre Indunull 1oMt 4 a wual aw arded 5 rmssuunt ate ethet REM

otommennn veapmaln
thr
EmNtA ung
petepunn I
e than kuggtemm. mtetess
- Medmal - a Aug Ih 1-5 a sura . l -
I Hu . a tehi An Im - 11
demmenhngg
Ar p-tt
I

the held el INI upaamall land entemmmemal -- a

Ihe mnia tes rager fm she awad e funur

and salurs
et kudl addane
m supju
petitioms,
harr mal
HH
pler i
T a - - 7
furhe
aleypaee
Hre
separsted
- - Le
..

then Commus
sbe
uppneed regula
amd thrrfees hav repmed ubhe

simer Helke Ln immpaaeed Almm hall ef the