-
1e0 East End Avanue Ncw York, New York 10028 Telophone (212) C23-6300
American Health -oundation
BOARD OFFICERS CF AND TAUSTEES David J. Mahoney, Chairman Pres.dent Norta Simon, Inc. Emest L. Wynder, M.D., President Thomas 4. Ross, Jr. Sacretary Vice President American Airlines, Ins. Warner o Cosgrava, 4 Treasurer Partner Manacin Shieics Company Trustees: Louis > Aronson, = Prasident Ronson Corporation Mrs. Chares A. Dana Frederie c. Dacker Dacker Presicent Communicatienss ine. Walter Senior Panner E. Hanson Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Ca. George James, M... Dean The junon Sinai Schoel of Medicine willia - Levin Chairman ot the Soard Levit P Sons, Ine. welism Meore aas sent Fielderes: Milis,ine. Joseah M Murta Presicent Sandgran & Murna, Ine. Roban R. Pauley Maxwell M. Ribb Partner Stroock & Stroock & Lavan Erecutive David L Davies. Vite Preaidant Javits a Javits Genoral Counset
July 7, 1970
G. F. Todd, Esq. Tobacco Research Council Glen House, Stag Place London, S.w.1 Englard
Dear Mr. Todd:
In recent talks with Dr. Carl G. Baker, Director of the National Cancer Ins stitute, the desirability of forming an international study group concerned with research into tobacco and health problems was discussed. This letter is to invite you on behalf of your organization to participate in this The proceedings will aim at providing the relatively few active investigators in tobacco and health research programs with an opportunity to discuss freely current and future research progrars with the intent of reaching common objectives nore quickly. will be composed of investigators primarily Theogroup in tobacco and health research oriented towards producing less harmful snoking products. The partici- pan ts mus t be both willing and able to share with other investigators what is being learned from their current activities and openly discuss plans for future research in the field. It is thought that by bringing such a group of experts toge: ther to review ongoing studies and to plan future investigations jointly less harmful tobacco products will be available sooner and cos tly research projects will not be duplicated unneces- sarily. The meetings would be held at yearly intervals with the different organizations acting as host.
informa tion and study group.
The
