True-Tal Ine Questlons S the Chenistry and Pyychophyslolocy of Ooor end Flevor 1. T - Sone nodern workers suggest that nocurate mensurement of vibratlona frequency (in the far intrared, for example) of nn unknown odorant wili permit prediction of its quallty and intenslty. T No elenentel substance, not even he lides or ozone hes eny odor; Instead they react with the nucose forning new products whic are smelled; but T Sone odorants have steric or vihrationnl propert les which force the conc luslon that they are odor less when they are not. 11, T Present evldence strongly suggests thot dl fferent parts of the ol factory receptor ares, Iike the retina In the eye, are que itty-specific. T Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor T. No one yet has a fire clue as to the criticel relation between the molecule and the receptor which permits en odor perception. - The greater the secretion rate of mucous or selive, the higher their pH, and both pH and temperature influence the quality of sensation in the 111. T The ident Instrumenta detector would respond to odors i the sene quantitative range as does an enima or human subject. 1. Such an Ideat detector hes not been developed.
sore elements possess taste.
surt face In order to be smelled,
chenica! senses.
2
I-man observors with head In fixed position cen by virtue of the two Indopondent nostrils easily discern stereo Sus I1 effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier an odorant is at the right or lefr hand, much es one uses nis two ears in locat ing the source of a sound, - For certain musk- lik coepounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger a humon offact ory response v. - Adeptation to cne olfactory qunlity does not significant ly reduce sensitivity to any other dissiei ler quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all sinllor quel aifies. T F By enploying a aimliarities nethod of compering qualities, one con now obtain ident Ity and degrees of difference without recour se to troble- vi. T Hunger lowers thresholds stightly to some food qua Iities but not for 1 Ir is now possible to ident fy the intensity and quality of a certain given stimull simply by expert examination of the electrophysiologicel record taken trom approprlate odor or taste neurons. T Electrical stinulat lon of taste in unn yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkalind" quality. T Direct electrical stimulation of the olfactory senso has never yer beon successtully accompilshed. VII. T Altnough total anosela is rare In humans and ageusio even rarer, there is evidence that In analogy to color vision deficiences, some people are Insensit tive to (only certain) qualities whi le having nornal sensitivity to others. T Topica anesthetics appiled to the tengue show that different quelities 1 Certain endocrine disease entitles make It possible for some people quite sensitively to "snell" such "odor less substences es sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both taste and odor can be reduced to nornat by manipuletion of endocr Ine levels. t enenopause wonon nt the tiee of ovuletion fInd certain odors extrenely disegreeable whlle at other fimes In the menstrunl cycle these seme odors
sone words. others.
of toste disappear at different rates.
they wil judge quite pleasent.
Dv A
