C
8s/n/s
IHT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira Nr Yerk Timer Semir
wan bought 5.1 billion American- Ametican cigarette promotioo about 80 New Taiwan dollars -
made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even in recent
($2.86) compared with 22 panies B advertise on TY after
TAIPEI The Marlboro cow- up sales of $119 million. ln 1986, trade talks between the United 1 Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for R boy in his white hat, cigarette € sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Suates and Taiwan Wang Chien- pack of Triwan-made cigarettes. ghng from his mouth, has come te eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly is shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigarette advertis town. His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered * ing is Japan are more liberal. Com- guitar-playing jeans-clad promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted pive out sod cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign Television This frenetic, fast-growing oa- cigurette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lrwed in the United States in 1971. tioe of nearly 20 million people ly because both Tawwn and Japan school students I 12, years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan emoked 34 billion cigarettes last dropped long-sianding restrictions. are DOW smoking How can € and Taiwan must carry a label that, rubtanttia number of them were Hamsoo Tobacco Corp- exporta of like that? It's O.K. to have cigareties them sake of healuh, doa't smoke t0o made is America, not Taiwan l American-made cigarettes to occupy the whole markets. We en- mucb" - a warning much milder To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy a $16 billion trade surplus with tbao the health-warning labels brinds to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $i billion in new sales. the United States. But those people mandated in the United States. Wacturers have essentially intro In Japan, which has . population are juat like robbers. If you are A Tbe companies may Amercann duced cigarette advertising to the of 120 million and where people "uru - human being. you won't do cigarettes are selling wellin Taiwan
and mom-and-pop stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
oul this city, next to posters ol I peroeni. er of Winston cigarettes.
"They to amusement places to 3:50 P.M. and are now conducting
for most of the growth in American R said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out-
year and for the first time, E According lo the Brown & Wil- rette companics promote
roughly transiated, says, "For the
ialand, and tbat has created . furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year. that. Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled ing teen-agers 9 unke dn moking. more than 0 percent last operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992. .presrure from Washingion. In the alcobol. 8 cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw Shau-kong a sfacturers at I time wben sales in and the Unitod States are way down laws is way up. According the U.S. 01
not KO mucb because of the adver. manufactur- tising as because they are of better thing wrong with the wa) they are cigaretter are made of blended to bacco and have less tar than Tai- producta and tber say wancse cigarettes which are not
American cigarette year, their
tbe American betl deny.
uhe past year. The market share 2E from 3 percent :" 1986, and the promoting
companics of entic American cigarettes increased 5 5 vigorously deay there is any- quality and taste beiter. American
* charge the American companies tised, altbough it does now.
Department of Agriculture pro- ihry have no pians lo change American pressure 9 open their have they pusbed todo s0, they say.
blended.
The goveramec--ddministeee dicts that it could grow lo 15 8. 20 sales pitch.
Tbey are not allowed to advertise 5 small stores where cigarettes are tions. Cigarette manu/acturers may
uhe cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials say tbey resent oo television or .g newapapers Nor The government agreed to allow markets te producta that éndanger Tbey can advertise only through otbers into tbe business oaly under people's health. like cigarettes and posiers hung near cigarette racks or year since stilf restrictions oc for- "This really burts our feclinga, sold, as well as through promo- .el American cigarettes in Taiwan I. ube United Sutts docs legisiator. not en- aiso place 120 ads a year in E have soared, generating much- courage its people to smoke, why zines, cach o whoec droulation sel- peadod growih for American man- export 1 Taiwan? Younger people doo exooods 200,000. and tbe number ol anti-smokkin caus of American ada. Thry bire rettos accounred for lcas than 1 mbrt ol Agriculture, people B. Tai- difficult lor Sunok boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed to sell
females are smoking a los be Bdore last yerr, forcign ciga- young attractive 19-yoar-old girla oent of tbe market Taiwan Suuvo short skirts 01 rive "p dig- posed strict cuotas on Depart- arettes (ree in nightclubs. k's 3 digaretee, banned imports at E and then it becomes a babit. I''s cigarettes and imposed stir tariffs.
g4 foreip
immoral."
: rorult imporied cigaretie cost
+/4000SZ 1/
