HKE2228112 SANTABARBARA SANTA-P
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
- B4. i - : A. AAt - aidi st SAIRAM N
TARIEA MITOENIA *
MIEN : WIIIN IEPAKIME - : PADHDST January 3, 1977 Dr. Willias H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Research Toundation 715 Muir Lands Vista Hay La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. Fishman: and Salk.
We are looking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of the La Jolia rescirch cocmunity. In particular, the activities of the La Jolla Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzymes should fit in well with ongoing activities not only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establismrent of a focal center for research proorams on oncodevelopmental prublems is particularly irely. It will be of o'vat potential importance for pulling togetter work by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, charecteriztaion and dotermination of the sieniticance of huran oncodevelopmental antigens such as alphafoteprotein and carcinuvebryonic entiuens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratorv is to determine the relationship of increased serura concentrations of ArP to precalignant lesions or carcinopen exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systers clearly derion- strate tnet anirals pasodico to hejatocarcinoures have elevated serum AFP concen- trations prior to developrant of mslionant tumcrs. It is hoped that systerrtic study of human scra frum differest sources vill deterning if serus AFP concun- In addition, the role of envitumestal factors such as hormonal influences on the production of amcodevelopsetal gene pralts can be further explored in different sy:tems. Such data iuplies that the prod:u tion of sicocovelopmenta gene products by turor ceils is net a fixed property of a aiven tumor but is We look forrard to workine with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the important subjert of ancudeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinoser exposure.
subject to enviroumestal controls.
expression. Best regards, Stewart Sell, H.D. Professor SS/nb
-
