WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRISUNE
D. 25,605  S. 49,326
WACO METROPOLITAN AREA
MAR G 696!

FC Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard-- Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission from going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigarettes are legal merchandise, it
does not scem right or logical that onc medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer while
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expected to review the FCC proposal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
June 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
worning: "Caution: Cigaretto Smoking May Be
The FCC sald dE is proposing to refuse Jicenses
to broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising
because of evidence that smoking is injurious to hoalth
ând the FCC has an obligation ln protect the public
intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigger than the FCC nnd may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals to do
es they please s0 long as they doa't harm another.
Jt also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that if you don't mention something. maybe * won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Hlorida Democret, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Con-
merce Com:mitice, snid in reference to the proposed
FCC rule that the ngnncy had overstepped the bounds
of its nuthority. He said he doubts that FCC has
any right 01 tell an advertiser what he could not
say in his ndvertisements. Rogers said Congress will
take a cluse Icok at the whole question of regulations
on televisinn and radio ndvertising' content, not ouly
as 01 the Federal Communications Commission but
in regard to Federal Trade Commission practices as
The stakes involved extend beyond the business
of broadcasting. They o5 to the heart of whether
government buireaus should he allowed to 03 beyond

advertising.
4

billboards and counter

a newspapors, magazines,

Hazardous to Your Health.

hurt you and will disnppear.

well.
7

tho limits of due proccss and the law,