LOS ANGELES TIES Los Angeles, California October 20, 1954 n been proved, Vale Iniversity
hainl uudn the premise that hination 'e a particular type a oaneetion hetween riea- in each nfthe three categnries Calls ret le smoking andt disease har has alrrady produred a sale Might Take Six Months one it is, so all can be made Dr. a Cuyler Hammont. that way. If not, the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Clarrnce Cnok Litte, complete statistical study to chairman of the scientife ad- date. said that "some say we vianry board and scient fie di should wait for more defini reetor e: the Toharco Indus tive evidence before develop try Research Committee, de- ing * safe cigarette, but no les which he helieves would nne hassaid just what the de prndure some nf "the defni fnitive evidence wed be." tive eviderce" E waich Dr Hr sand ha "took issue" with Hammond referred. In his talk 1n the American "We wiil tackle rimultan system was more important, line of the industrv's research migh: prove surcessful in six dn not have today the experi- months, "with luck," he said mental evidence that wilner-
cigarette J1, so. scientific re- search should prove which should find one, "since ple like to smoke eigarettes." seribrd the outlines nf siud- Tackle Unknewns
Expert for
atatistician
peo-
Safe Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming
NEW YORK, Ort. 61 ALPI this viewnnint,
The evidence conneeting cig- Cancer Society meeting. Dr eously many of the unknowne arette smoking with bath Hammond sairt the relation- in this feld of tobacen 11e in lung cancer and heart dis- ship nf rigare:te smoking to relation to Euman health," he case is "overwhelming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the out- something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitive once about developing "a safe health, than the relationshin Andings in an area where cigarette. : a leading statisti- to lung cancer. A program to much suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find "a safe cigarette" from heen done. The nrogram nf meeting cf the American the viewpoint ef the heart the bnard reengnizes that wr tifie advisory board of the There are various types n( garding the raute anr rfert Tobacco Industry Research tnhacen, there are varinus relationship hetween rrv ram. Committee ansounced some of fypes R. filters, and theze are mental factors, inclnding the details nf ttR scicatifo re- Varinus sonb,usi n! curing The most important
Cancer Society today. At the same time the scien-
Outlines Deserihed
mit scientifc enncliunns PA. xmnkine and lune eancer current lung cancer raset in 10 medical centers im the En ed States and Canada
srarch program
which tobaren, he xaid, and it may
nrneet
ie he thar some fortuitors rnm- set up was a diree: scudy - nf
LOS ANGE LES EYAVINES Los Angeles, California October 20, 1954
It will inelude numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokers. as well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspeets of the research were disclosed today. The specifio research grants, financed Aq the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY ON TOBACCO NEW YORK. Oct. 19.-UP) A broad abx point study seek Ing knowledge whether eigareta or other forma of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health baz. ards was announced today. It ia the first announcement of a big research proxram headed by the selentifie ad- visory board of the Tobacco In. dustry Research Committee
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
