May 16 96. 8:44
P.11
Chicago Tribune
MAY. 9T 9661
Philip Morris, UST offer plan to curb teen use of tobacco Proposal would prohibit FDA regulation,
7loosies : ban By Barbara Sullivaa TRIBUNE STAFF WRITER Philip Morris Cos. and UST H GAsT of the largest 1664c00 companies. went on the ollen- sive Wednesday, proposing sweeping legialation to curb teen tobacco use. The proposals, which would include a ban on vending machine and DIIDLABBI2:91Bu19 isaies and impose curbs on - advertising. go further than restrictions sought by the Food and Drug Administration. the companies said. The quid pro quo, however. is that the Yas be prohibited from any regulation of tobacco prod- ucts. "It there's FDA involvement. the deal is not on the table," corporate afTairs. are not meant as a compromise. and restricting tobacco usage. this e a solution." beneficial
machine salès
and vending 3/
Arb anat
4 photo
said Ellen Merlo, Philip Morris "Steve Parrish, a Philip Morris USA senior vice president of Cos. senior vice president. at a Merlo also said the proposals news conference Wednesday. or first step toward rapproche- pany and UST is the biggest ment. with the government's maker of snuff and chewing mounting push loward regulating tobacco. The two companies. "This way beyond a com- support from other tobacco promise. T Merlo said. "We think companies, said their proposal Merlo said further that the industry fund spent over a five- proposals are so comprehensive year period to help implement that unilateral action Ag Philip the legislation. Morris- and UST would not be Some anti-smoking advocates, "We couldn't implement these posals as nothing more than a actions on our own. without leg- blatant smoke screen to keep islation." she said. "If only one the FDA out of the picture. or OMI companies participated. "They realtze that the FDA is Philip Morris. maker of Marl- kids from the blandishments (of boro cikarettes among others. SL the tobacco industry) and they
which have not yet received would include a $250 million however. saw the tobacco pro- most serious about protecting SEz CKGARETTTS PACE 2
there would be no impact." the world's biggest tobacco com-
