STRIGKMAN FITER WINS 2D CONTRAGT * Another Cigarette Concern in Canada Signs to Use It : 1 By MURRAY SCHUMACH Rothman's Pall Mall of Canada, Ltd, the -3ze-puonas est cigarette sompany in that country, contracked yesterday with the Strickman Koundation to pay a penny a pack royalty for use of the filter ihented by Robert L. Strickman. The company, which is 5a per cent British-owned. but Cansdian-managed, sells 12 I4 lion cigarettes a year, very few o: them E the United States. The: agreement was the second In two days with the founda- tion. On Wednesday the foun- dation signed with the Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Ltd., that country's largest cigarette company, with annual salcs of more than 18 billion cigarettes. That first contract was over- shadowed by the announcement that Columbia University, at the request of Mr. "ueunoins was surrendering its rights a the filter to the fonndation. The university said it had "made a well-intentioned mis- take in entering a highly con- troveisial end competitive com- mercial field." Million in Royalties Expected Columbia's financial the filter, which could have amounted to 51 per cent, was donated to it Iast summer Ag Mr. Strickman. The foundation was set up on Wednesday by the New Jersey chemist as a charitable institution à ad- vance medical education and From each of the Canadian companies, the foundation has received $200,000 in advance royalties. According e Robert - Katz, the unsalaried presi- dent of the foundation, these two contracts cauld eventually ibrine in about SS million e year't roy'alties. Mr. Katz, A Jawyer who. tal secretary of Seagram's Distil- leries, said that Rothman's Pall nfall of Canada hed been test- ing the. Strickman filtor since last August. Wilmat Tennyson, vice pres- ident of Rothman's, said of the device: *We are sntisfied that nothing exists tor * which gives - comparciie filtration without adversety affecting the flavor of the cigarette. a ltakes out more padsns # ments withia. the cuniext of ac- ceptable flavor, we fcel that : a cigarette company-"we shnuld trvi. : - E
New York Times March 1, 1968 Page 34
* Claims Are Disputed The claim that the filter can remove a significant amount of tar and nicotine without hurt- ing cigarette flavor has boen *1 subject of controversy. : Among the most outspoken critics of the filter has beeniF Genator Warren G. Magnuson oN Washington, who has con- tended that its claims have been ieatly exaggerated. s NnOuL many governmental and privae health reports by experts hate called cigarette tar and hiçotine health hazards, Columbia "Univarsity, in a -D1 port on the Shickman filter made public ta Wednesday. avoided making y conclu- So far no United Shes ciga- rette companies are belitved ou be close to a contract iX the filter. Experts say that dotes- tic companies need not fexr competion in this country from the Canadien cigarettes because of a 15-cent import duty on leach package. Pall Mall cigarettes are manu- factured in this country by the American Tobacco Company, not connected with the Cana-! dian concern.
sions.
stake in

rescarch.
100; € - d - à
- 4
