Vol. 285 No. 23
EDITORIALS
1317
The New England Journal of Medicine Officia! Organ of The Massachusetts Medical Society Founded in 1812 as the Nrw EXGLANO JOURNAL Or MEDICINE AXD SURGERY and continued in 1828 as Vol. 1 of the BOSTON MEDICAL AND SURGICAL.JOURNAL PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATIONS or THE MARNACHUSETTI MEDICAL SOCIETY Claude E. Welch, M.D., Chninman Joseph Garland, M.D., EDITOR EMERITUS Franz J. ingellinger M.D, EDIrOR ASROCIATE Enrroas George S. Richardson, M.D. Boox REVIEWS Robert O'Leary, ASSISTANT ÉDITOR EDITORIAL BOARD
ACTION ON ASBESTOS ASBESTOS workers are unintentional victims of industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary fbrosis, pleural calcification, mesothellomas andlung cancer. Asbestos exposure is now wine and beer." Fibers have been found in the lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex- posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or ferruginous bodies may be, there is no doubt that electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers case in the general population at this time, the presence of asbestos de their lungs is disturbing. Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction most chemical and physical means and can foat freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods. sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must be made now, on the basis of "reasonable probabili- ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition These thoughts are reinforced by the work of
involving not
air but also widespread, drinking water,
only
Alexander Marble. M.D. Samuel Proger, M.D.
Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos.? Al- Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-
by
Jane F. Desforges, E Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.
Ronald A. Malt, M.D. Asbestos discases have a long latent period, 20 Arnold L. Smith, M.D, years or more. We therefore believe that more
of dose-response relations,
Robert E. Johnson, 5 Norman 2 Levinsky, M.D. Francis D, Moore, M.D. Charies d Sanders, M.D, Jeromne H. Shapiro, M.D. Ronald A. Arky, M.D. Dana L. Farniworth, M.D.
John W. Listefield M.D, Murphy and associates in this issue of the Journal Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, (p 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved l5 Louis Weinstein, M.D, new ship construction include better John R. David, M.D. exposure data and indicate a high incidence of as- Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. bestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-
usual than
Howard Bleich, M.D,
Isadore N. Rosenberg, M.D. Milion d Paige.Jr., BUSINESS MANAGER
tions. A second study of Murphy et al. reports two cases of pleural disease (one mesothelloma) a workers who sanded asbestos fioor ules. Since the
AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au- unl should consult "information for Authors." This material thors simulated the working conditions and found may be found in the first issue of every volume of the Jour concentrations of C'T Abers per milliliter 'of room CASE REPORTS, usually published in the "Mtedical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 01 fbers every gence" section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled cine le covered by copyright, The Journal does not hold itself A recent Committee report prepared by 4 Nation- REPRINTS: The fournal does not stock reprints of the arti- tion of those who are exposed in their occupations. ALTHOUGH all advertising material accepted is expected S biologic effects and the physica! characteristics of SUBSCRIPTION PxICES (woridwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with - interns, residents $7.50 peryear). Rates are in U.S. fundsonly. confidence." Although we endorse these recommen- MICROFILME volumes availabie to regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for through University Microfilms, 315 N. Firse Street, Ann technical controls based on existing COMMUNICATIONS should be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologic monitoring, physical studies of as- land Journal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects
nel, or a may be obtained from the Jsumal office. The entire air. This concentration is less including references, should be typed double space, pue all material, including figures, should be submit- used reference to arcicles reporting closely related cases. A very fbers remains in the short case report or a description of a technic submitted : a "Baicr RECORDING" should be limited to 500 words, MATERLAL printed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period. responsible for statements made Aig any contributor. NOTICES should be received not later than noon on Mon- day, 24 days before date of publication. ces published. Requests should be sent to the author. imply endorsement by the Journal, Arbor, Michigan 48106. chusetts 02115.
1/5 of than currently these lung, figures suggest that has called for control panel" needed urgently "if a knowledge.
manuscript, ted in duplicate.
threshold
limit values. A fber per milliliter of room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per an alarming number will still accumulate over a "OI, of asbestos emissions at the source and for protec- The report also calls for further rescarch on the
e Academy of Sciences
conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance does not asbestos fibers; such data are
on cells and tissues arc important and must be con-
