ry

6ja/08

HT

Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man

By Susan Chira
Nr York Times Servier

wan bought 5.1 billion American- Ametican cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars a

made cigarettes last year, ringing became S issue even in recent

($2.86) compared with 22
panies can advertise on TV after
cigarettes and
an aggressive campaign. Television
gifus,"
E
E
was out-
lawod in the
States in 1971.
junior high
LaE
old Cigarette packages sold in
3years
and WANI must carry - label Mar
sake & health, don't smoke 100
to
Ean
with than the health-warning labels
jou o much because of the adver.
tising as because they are of better
manufactur- quality and taste beiter. American

TAIPEI - The Marlboro COw. dn sales of $119 million. In 1986, trade talks betwoen the United i Taiwan dollans E cents)fora
boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- States and Taiwan. Wang Chie- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes.
ghing from his mouth, has come lo eign cigarettes DOW hold nearly 18 shieng. Taiwan'sdeputy minister of The limits 00 cigarette advertis
town. His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, registered a ing in Japan are more liberal. Com-

and dod-pus-mom stores through- uno cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest.
guitar-playing pep-sueaf promot. Indeed, Asian sales accounted
This frenetic, fast-growing 0a cigarette exports last year, primari- teachers told me that
billion cigarettes last dropped long-standing restrictions. are now smoking How can
rubrtantial number of them were liamsoo Tobacco Corp. exporta of like that? Ir's O.K. to
To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- joy a $16 uorq trade
ialand, and that has created L furor. smoke 300 billion cigarettes a year that."
Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled American cigarette
tbe American companies of entic- the past year. The market share
ing teen-agers iake da moking, more than in
a charge the American companies from 3 percent percent 5 1986,
The Boreaneoradeieinmrnd dicts that it could grow 9 13 8 20 sales pitch.
operation that had monopolized peroent Kq 1992.
.preneure from Washingion. In the alcohol.
year since stiff restrictions on for. "This really burts our
cign cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw
have soared,
-peaiod growth American man-
Prn
wacturers ata time when sales is expori Tawan? Younger
laws s
way dn

oui this city, next to posters da peroeni.
b
Winston
of
cigarettes.
tioe of
nearly 20 million pcopie
amoked 34

amusement placesto 5:501 P.M. and are now conducting

most
for 8 the
in American
growth
Iy because

a said recently. "Many scbool- advertising of

both Tuwan and Jepan school students - 12,

year and for the lirst time, a According to the Brown P Wi. rette companies promote ciga- roughly transiated, says, "For the
brands to Taiwan, American man- sulting a $i billion ie new sales the United States. But surplus those people mandaled in the United States.
Wacturers have estentially intro- InJapan, which has . population are just like robbers. If you are a Tbe companies Amencan
paonp cigarette advertising to the of 120 million and where people man, human being.you woo't do cigarettes are selling : lin Taiwan

made la America, not Taiwan. all American-made

cigarettes occupy the whole markets. We en- much" a warning much milder

American cigarettes increased 6 vigorously deny there is any-

e
botly deny.

SAE
last
rE

thing wrong with the way they are cigarettes are made of blended to
promoting their products and bacco and bave less which tar than Tai-

are not

Department of Agriculture pro thry have no plans to change Ks waaese bleaded. cigarettos,

They are not allowed to advertise
La small stores where cigarettes are
sold, a well a through promo
4 feclings." legisiaior. tions. Cigarette manufacturers may
dom exooeds 200,000.
L
RE

the cigarette market had not adver- Taiwan officials they resent loe television or in newipapers. Nor
A government agreed o allow markets o producta that endanger Tbey can advertise only through
.otbers into tbe bunness oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and posienhung near cigarette racks or
R American cigarettes B Taiwan I tbe United Shau-kong Suates docs not en- also place 120 ada . year 6 maga-
the Unitod States are way down and femaics are smoking 1 3 Belore last i foreign ciga-
and a aumber of anti-smoking causc of American E They hire rettes accounted a less than 1
According to the U.S. Depart- arettes (roe in soaputu W's KA cigarettes, banned imports at a
mbet R Aghoulture, poople B Tai- difficult for young boys of resisi, 70,000 retail outlets licenaed 0 sell

tised, altbough it does now.

American pressure 59 open their have they pusbed to do Io, they say.

much- courage its people to smoke, why rine, cach of whosc groulation acl-
young attractive po-rak-61 girla cent of tbe market. Taiwan
Juuvan short skirts 01 give mp a posed strict quotas on foreiga
and then it becomes a habit. It's cigarettee and imposed stiff tariffs

e

&4

immoral."

: rerult, imported cigaretiee coet