True-Faise Questions S the Chenistry and hyes@yslalngr.Sor and Flevor 1. TF Sone nodorn workers suggest that accurate menaurement of vibrational trequency (in the far intrared, for exemple) of an unknown odorant will pernlt prediction of its quallty and intenslty. T E No elenentel substance, not even halldes or ozone hes eny odor; Instead they react with the mucosa forning new products which are smelled; but T F Sone odorants have sterlc or vibrational propertles which force the concluslon that they are odorless whon they are not. 11. T F Present evldence strongly suggests thet different parts of the olfactory receptor aren, Ilke tho retina In the eye, ere qusilty-spelfie. TF Odorents need not penetrate the mucous (liquld system) nor the receptor TF No one yet has a fire clue as to the criticol relation between the molecule and the receptor which pernits en odor perception. TF The greater the secretion rate of mucous or selive, the higher thelr pH, and both pH end temperature Influence the quallty of sensation in the 111. TF The Ideal instrumentel detector would respond to odors in the sono Quantitative range as does an onimat or human subject. TF Such an Ideet detector has not been developed. IV. : Iman observors with head In fixed position con by virtue of the two Indopenrter.t nostriis eesliy discern stereo seall effects, 1.e. they can tell whotier a ororont Is at the right or left hand, much es ore uses his two cora In locating the source of a sound. #1 For certaln musk-liko compounds, forty motecules are sufficlent to trigger a humon olfactory response. "A TF Adaptation to one olfactory quality does not signlficantly reduce sensitivity to any ofher dissiel ler quality, but does reduce sensi- tivity to all siallor quelities. TF By employing a slmlierities aethod of conparing qualitles, one con nowr obtain Identity and degroes of difference without recourse to troble- vi. TF Hunger lowers thresholds siightly to some food qualltios but not for TF It is now possible to Identify the intensity and quallty of a certain given stimull sieply by expert examination of the electrophyslotogical record taken from approprlate odor or taste neurons. - F Electrical stimulation of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a "eetallic" or "alkalind" quality. T d Direct etectrical stimuletion of the olfactory senso has nover yet beon successfully accompllshed. VII. TF Although total anosela Is rore In humans and ageusia even rarer, there Is evidence that In analogy to color vision deficiences, sone people are Insensitive to (only certain) qualities while having normal sensitivity to others, - F Toplcal anesthetics applled to the tongue show that dlfferent quellties T F Certaln endocrine diseese entitles nake It possible for sone people quite sensitively to "snell" such "odorless" substances es sucrose or sodium chloride and thelr sensitivity to both teste and odor can be reduced to noreat by manipuletion of endocrine levels. TF Premenopausal wonon at the time of ovulation find certaln odors extremely disegreeabie whlle at other times In the menstrual cycle these seme odors
sone elenents possess toste.
surface In order to be smelled,
chemicn! senses.
sone words. others,
5
of toste disappear at different rates.
they will judge quite pleasant.
ove A -
