DALLAS MORNING NEWS
Dallas, Texas
April 14, 1954

Tobacco Firms Ask
New Cancer Studies
NEW YORK (UP).-The tobacco representing
Industry charged Tuesday "sensa- auctioneers. growers and tobacco
tional" statements linking smoking Among those quoted by the çom-
and lung cancer have given a one- mittee waS the National Cancer
alded picture of the relationship ef Institute of the United States Gov-
cigarettes and bealth and called port ernment, that the which said a a 1953 #
for exhaustive research to estab- had not been cause established. of lung Several cancer
lish the basic cause of the disease. of the institute's scientista also
committee issued a booklet con- Runyon Others quoted were the Damon
published state- more research, and
ments by thirty-six cancer author- cer Surgeon Dr. Max Chicago a
ities doubting or decying claims said a few sensitive Cutler, who
by other cancer experts that tobac- deveiop lung cancer persons because may
The earliest, whitten ie 1923, said conclusion of a direct
there were irritants in tobacco but in all cases is "unscientific relationship and
none that would produce timors. hazardous."
The most recent; dated last March F smoke in the lungs were
"9t said much more research must sure-fire cause of
be done before causes of lung can- have had it long ago," canoer,  the we'd all
cer or any other kind of canoer quoted Dr. Clarence Cook report
The tobacco committee, formed Mernorial Laboratory, Bar Har-
5 January to combat mounting bor, Maine.
charges about cigarettes, is made The report cited
dn of nearly every major cigarette University of Texas experts School of Medi-
manufacturer and organizations cine, the Metropolitan Life Innir

The tobacco industry research were cited.

taining previously
8 causes lung cancer.

Fund, which called for
of smoking but that partly to accept the

-

a
at the

can be established.

director of the Roscoe B. Jackson Little,
ance Corapany and British author
ities, Nearly alt those quoted
agreed that no conclusions çould be
reached until 'an absolute cause for
lung cancer has been established
The report was described & an
terim" industry spokesman as an "in-
statement, pending an-
nouncement of the choice of a
basic prominent sclentist to supervise
nanced cancer research S be 8-
84 the industry. That scien-
tist will decide how the industry's
cancer-research money is to be
spent. No date has been set for his
At the Jast count, the committee
said; there were more than 850
cancer research grants in the
United States alone, "any one of
unlock which might produce evidence to
the secrets of lung cancer,' 

selection.

)