BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
a
Area stores
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For tha Dally Camera i kids. ka,
referring to the Increased enforce- penatty tur selling tobacco OL ml- tried 0 Ang Uhie cigarelles. The
ment.
Doulder police stung 11 busl- Store clerks unlucky enough. OF nesses this week during a crack. get-caught were issueda summons down on selling cigarettes to mi- to appoar 5 court. The maximum The sting. conducted on the eve noris I r$200 fine. of.- the American Cancer Soclety's The Suna involved two tcams. Great American Smokeout, was -u Each included a uniformed omcer. tended to educate clerks that it's 1 a pigin clothes amcer. and two legal 3 sell tobacco products to Fairviow High School girts, Who Police targeted gas stations, con: girls" parenis signed a waiver al. vénience, drug, grocery. and "P lowing themla talie pariin thc.op: a Taw has never Beer enforced, pres The juvenlles wore told not to Jopinog Police Ollcer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk Nn sell iWe're letting the stores know had to show identification.
count Blores. Unuil recently, the eration. thie le going to happen," ahc sald,
tne cigarettes, and, if asked, they (See BOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores for cigarette sales to mlnors At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry 28th SL, one of the giris asked when she Was isted a slim-. the cashinr for a pack of Mart mons ous gald ahe was - stur boro Lights. Ofcer Rob Hauke- jop. and couldn't atord RUl ness, S plain clothes, po01s up court Costs. HAukeness pec 21 ina-hehtnd her to witness thc coacole her, saying she could: A placard near the caih regis. the Distriet Attorney to do com . ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice Inatrad of paying clerk asked to see somo identifi- The clorkn, not the store own cation. The buyer produced lier ers or manugers, have to pay the: she WAS only 41 Tho clerk look- "We don't do it 01 punish. cd at the license, sct it down on stores or clerks," she said. "Al-: the counter, and sold har tho though, when you see clerks ciye Afler they left, Haukenees Roulder Polica targeted yT stepped dn and identified him Blorca and clerks F all bur # self 03 a police officer. Manka recelved summonses. came in and wrote the clerk a Thie weck'a operation was "When I see them ask for an year. Tha Airst sting. conducted E I think they're golng to à Et September, targeted 16 stores: fuse the cale," Haukeness sald. and 15 clerks received sum
(From Page (OT
The clerk at Colony Market,
transaction.
Aqugnd work out a dealwith.:
No 'af No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, - drlver's license, which showed court cost.
a
cigarettes. summons.
ing, you mnight think otherwise." secund tobacco sale stine - the:
"But they never do."
monses.
