FF
Principal lnvestigator/Program Direcior (Last. first, middle):
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH POSITION TITLE
Give the lollowing information for the key personne and consullants and collaborators. Begin with the principal
investigatorprogram director. Photoccpy this page lor each person.
NAME
Constance Smith
Postdoctoral Fellow
EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or other initial prolessional education, such 8 nursing. and include postdoctoral training.)
YEAR CONFERRED 1986 1994
INSTITUTION AND LOCATION Wesleyan University, Middletown, CT University of California, Berkeley, CA Emory University School ofMedicine
DEGREE B.A. Ph.D.
FIELD OF STUDY Biology Molecular & Cell Biology
Postdoc 1994-present Anatomy & Cell Biology
RESEAACH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPEAIENCE Concluding with present position, list, ie chronological order, previous employment experience, and honors. Key personnel include the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the project. Kay personnel typically will include all individuats with doctoral or other professional degrees, but in some projects willl include individuals at the masters or baccalaureate level provided they contribute in a substantive way to the scientific development or execution of the project. Include present membership on any Federal Government public Arosupe committee List, in chronological order, the titles, all authors, and complete references o all publications during the past three years and de representative earlier publications pertinent lo this application. lf the list of publications is the last three years exceeds two pages,
select the most pertinent publications. DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES. RESEARCH/PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
11/86 - 12/87 - 01/88 07/88 08/88 . 06/94 07/94 - 08/94 . 09/94 present HONORS 1993 1994 1995-1996 PUBLICATIONS Papers
Research Assistant, Anatomy & Cell Biology Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. Participated in biochemical purification oft tropomodulin in the lab ofVelia M. Fowler, Assisted in polyclonal antibody production and purification in the lab ofVelia M. Fowler. Postdoctoral fellow, in the laboratory ofDr. Shirley T. Bissen, Dept. ofBiology,
Institute
CA.
Research Assistant Molecular Biology, Research Doctoral Candidate in the laboratory of Dr. David A. Biology, Univ. ofCalifornia, Berkeley. University ofMissouri, St. Louis, MO.
of Scripps Clinic, LaJolla, Weisblat Molecular and Cell B. Luskin, Dept, of Anatomy
fellow
Marla
and Cell
Postdoctoral
in the laboratory ofDr
Biology, Emory University School ofMedicine, Atlanta, GA
Best poster award, West Coast Regional Developmental Biology Conference Invited speaker for minisymposium, Society for Developmental Biology meeting National Research Service Award, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke
Smith, C.M. and Weisblat, D.A. (1994) Micromere fate maps in leech embryos: lineage - specific differences n Smith, C.M., Lans, D. and Weisblat, D.A. An investigation of cellular mechanisms of epiboly in leech embryos Bissen, S.T. and Smith, C.M. mRNA synthesis is required for asymmetric cell division during a critical period of Fowler, V.M. and Smith, C.M. (1988). Inhibition of tropomyosin binding to F-actin 4y tropomodulin, a new tropomyosin-binding protein from the human erythrocyte membrane L CellBiol 107: 681A.
rates of cell proliferation. Development 120:3427-3438.
(Submitted to Development)
early leech development up) preparation).
Abstracts
PHS 398 (Rev. 9/91)
(Form Page 6) Page 50650464
FF
Numbor pages corsecutwely at the bottom thwoughout the applicatian No mot use suffies such as 3a. 3b.
