4/58

Peptide Hormones. Growth Factors. and
Soma H (ed): Placenta: Basic Research for Clinical Applicaton.
Int. Conf. on Placenta. Tokyo. 1990. Basel. Karger, "1661 pp 105-114
Isolation of a Xenobiotic Metabolizing
Cytochrome P-450 (P-45050x) with
No Aromatase Activity from Placental
Microsomes of Both Cigarette-Smoking and
Yoshio Osawa, Tadavoshi Higashiyama. Kenji Shimizu',
Endocrine Biochemistry Depanment, Medical Foundation of
Buffalo Rescarch Insttute. Buffalo. N.Y., USA

Placental Proteins

Nonsmoking Mothers
Nobutako Yoshida'

COPY

FILE

The presence of different monooxygenase activities has been docu-
mented in human placental microsomes. The predominating cysochrome P.
450, that of androgen aromatase, catalyzes the biosynthesis of estrogens (1).
Aromatase P-450 has been tbe object of numerous studies to determine its
mechanism of action and to purify it [2, 3). Gough et al. [4) reponed the
presence of another enzyme system which catalyzes the hydroxylation of
xenobiotic substances. It has also been reported that a placental cytochrome
P-450 ie responsible for the hydroxylation ofbenzolalpyrene via aryl hydro-
carbon hydroxylase [5-7). The low content of the responding cytochrome P.
450 in human placenta and instability during purification have made it
difficult to isolate any other active P-450 enzyme. As a side beneft gained
from our procedure to purify and characterize catalytically active aromatase
P-450 [3), we found a fraction from the immunoafinity chromatography
which showed a high level of xenobiotic activity with little contaminating
aromatase activity. Through the uscofconventionsl purifcation procedures.
we obtained a xenobiotically active P-450 with no aromatase activity.
Previous studies on aryl hydrocarbon bydroxylase activity have demon-
strated higher levels of this activity in smokers but not in nonsmokers (8, 9).
*Postdoctoral Research Fellows OD leave from the Deparment of Obsteinc and

Gynecology. Okayama Univernty Medical Scnool. Okayama. Japan.

PUBLICATIONS

028242