CP
9-4-D
Makersof Cigarettes Claim Nointerestin Pot NEW YORK av) - Ciga- CIWCIONE TOBACCO company rette manufacture have n erest in report, recommendation was
a a - 1 * AV 3 uesday official noted that the staff legalize marijuana for per- of vsons over 28 years age 2 while : the biggest market Prevention might be a lower age brack- *   d mends legalizatie ar "pot" AMary Jane sort o 1 goes with the youngsters," com- Sam Fouts, advertis "No, no no, n = as ine mented manager for Larus Bros. been a rumorfot, pA last E I a & Co., of Richmond, Va. years and that'gave s. cadse Mary Jane ie an old nick- to check ME wn thoroughty. this 5 pame for marijuana but gen- erally has fallen Into disuse anywhere; mme indusiry. among the young. William Kloepler" & the: To *es Fouts, noting that mari- bacco Institute, declared. a Juana is "still a rather taboo sopie" in the cigarette in- "THERE LNSI P2 ol. dustry, emphasized that his goes by that'some segment company "wouldn't touch it
say chey à diversifying to p mari- ofed - juana, despite - faft report - of the on the Causes * o Violence I 2recom- "et. for adults.
a 0n
There is - to
te -
peR Arre. month  the underground. : press doesn't cetry story about at all" how tobacco companies are gearing S for the marijuana trade," wouretpAp Bolling. vice president and assistant *Philip Morris, chairmawiot 3 3 Ine. He PIF aaRen this type of d apeculation was S uncer- argepurs ute tobacco com- panjes * Apiod beld,and under strict government con: trol; noone 'can eyed remote- ly become Involved' becausé at. the present s ume mari- juana is illegal. 1. HPE MER . There bave been peraistent stories à that "tobacco com- panies 'already have regis- tered E possible a brand names (rademarks that In- clude some of the current ve- nacular associated ya marijuana. and that 'they have been buying dn huge tracts o land in Mexico on which to harvest marljuana. : weeryeeg 3 "WE'RE NOT filing for trademark names like 'Aca- pulco Gold' or buying land south of the border," core mented, Jner - - : - 4 uit MiL AP - a 4tl s w nit is A t I de # : ze a a LE a OE i a SAIL a a EE n dE . a a Sf5s a a d. a8 - V .e - uue a Nk o 1e ue eumrs : E urt WSY 4 - M DCA O due vid KEEEA wS - - * -
