L
SYMPTOMS AND THE UNANOHIANTPONDUN IN THE SICK BUILDING SYNDROME A PILOT STUDY 000598
M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.
ASHRAE and SOEH Member ABSTRACT
et al. (1967) investigated the frequency of complaints in 43
de e crots-sectional investigation in one building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a valideted complaints associated with the "sick building syndrome" questionnaire. The sympsoms were more common a bild- were measured on a linear analog i questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and Ar the same time. the micro-environmon (environmental humidification. irrespective of the 4 of the I A characteristics in the breathing zone + - area direct relationship between the level of complaints and air samples) I characterized 4g measuring temperesure, Aurenb parameters : not described Skov et a (1987) es- relacive humidiry, respirable popuadms "smued 8 paurue indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern Danish bon dioxide, noise level, lighaing intensity, relasive ha tow halls and 14 older control buildings. A level of 1 midiry, and airflow. No relarionship I seen betwveen toms was related o1 "Beecing" factor (carpets, upholstery. a degree of sympioms and age. I or duration and horizontal surfaces) sad the "macro-molecular I of employment at the building or time nuds in the i : of dust. They also demonstrated . relationship between ha on a daily I Suristically, complaints were the oumber of hours spent photocopying and using carbonless significandly more frequent I Amyour 3 Envi- kduo paper and tbe level of complaints. Other studies have ronmental characterisics associaied wish : increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985) complaint levels in this group included decreased airflow I psychodynamic factors (Rowand et al. 1984) contribute models, there I an association benween ayaadra ad- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome E mea- pended particulates and the levels of boch mucous I suring muosduis and environmental exposures. Robertson et brane pue sysemic complaints. Sasisfaction 1 a F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable du. I environment as predicted wopdud ofdref ferences le the concentrations of eaviroamental although repression models E - t comp * building. E studied the rooms with the f compl
:
velociry and increased levels aygundraufo adpopundme 8 indoor air quality complaints.
ticulates 1 dry-bulb semperature. In regression
Several studies have attempted 8 identify the actual
R not
I ventilated naturally again
clearly contribute 0 the I : independent of thermal I - iniensiry I also associated # sudies of a sick bullding syndrome L measures 0 identify predictors of complaints in
of symptoms, berween rooms la a mechanically and a
- S
i I used area samples. Skov et al. (1987) did I uacre strate a relationship between symptoms and E ares - i ples measuring dust E . "macro-molecular" traction. Area samples is buildings a not be representacive of à exposures le different points le single I Physical characteristics such as windows and paritions. I and shelving may infuence sir currents. Radiant I may
mulsple exposures simulanceously and inchude psycho- B : 1
indoor spaces. INTRODOCTION
Complaints lermed the "sick building syndrome" I lead to uneven distribution of pollutants. Finally, I pol- led S numerous investigations in a last 15 years. They are lutants resukt from point sources, 06 they will be diluted a . thought os occur primarily a newty constnacted # i subject le fartber removed from the source. The micro # inp and, at least e the past, were thought to be a to viroament around desks and within cubicles may have very inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1984). Nevertheles, a different exposure charscteristics than the macro-enviroe # variety of causes have been identifed le specific settings, meat of a building la addition. all applied oocupational and inchuding inadequate tempersture and relative bumidiry 8 environmental bealth research that attempts 0u relate : lo trol, noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds bealh effects suflers from the problem E : is penerally and formaldehyde. microorganisms, enviroemental tobecco measured at several points in time and then extrapolated to < smoke, pesticides, à entrainment of vehicle i 8 allow development of exposure classifications 1 decades spent & contaminated air and boiler I fbers released I most heakth effects are mcasured a . single i of from - linings. and office machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures. Where the variability of I A group of investigators from Great Britain (Finnegan where the level of symptoms may change not merely trom et * 1984) 1 that these complaints were related pri day to day but from hour to hour, such a strategy mast fail. (Robertson et al. 1985) was unable o identify differences in attempted to characterine air-quality parameters in the micro wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb tempersture (temper- eaviroement and set these characteristics le relation a a ature), relative humidity. air velociry, formaldebyde. or pos- level of individual complaints at . given point .s time. This itive or negative ions between several rooms in . building report presents results of a crom-sectionsl investigation of a with natural and - building with mechanical vencilation, problem building using . self-administered. I analog. where both 3 of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom E I a Amitant Profesor of Medicne and et Industrial and Enviroamental Heakh Sciences at the Univeruty of T Schoot of Medicine and Publc Heahh. 4 i a Director, Enviroemrstal Healh and Salery. Camnepe-Metlon Univeruty. Puburgh. FA.
(Kreiss and Hodgson 1984; Hodgson 3 Kreiss 1986). marily o mechanical ventilation. A same group of authors
results is greater than the difference in average samples, and No investigations in the peer-reviewed litersture I
0
PAeicers /RISSIS Sasp
