: a
M * -
- PKu 3o
Carelnagenesls vul 15 MI EI Pp.2721-2725. r66I
Lung tumor induction in A/J mice by the tobacco smoke carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-@-pyridyl-1-butanuine and benzo(s)pyrene: a potentially useful model for evaluation of
C3420
chemopreventive agents
Stephen S.Hecht, Shelley Isaacs and Neil Trushin Amencan Health Foundation. Valhalla, NY 10595. USA
models examined to date (2). BaP is a prototype of the class of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke (I). We have chosen the All mouse because previous
The purpose of this study SEM to establish a lung tumor studies have shown that both NNK and BaP readily produce model for the evaluation of chemopreventive agents against lung tumors in this strain (3-8). Lung adenomas are induced lung cancer in smokers. Lung tumor induction in AJ mice rapidly and can be readily quantified and their progression to by Lomc@yloymsmkorl0yidb-tb-oem (NNK) carcinomas has been described (3-8). However, the combineé and benzofalpyrene (BaP) was studied using protocols in effects of NNK and BaP have not been thoroughly investigated. individually or in comhination. Groups of (emale A/J mice 2 evaluate the effects of chemopreventive agents. Wattenberg were treated by either intragastrie gavage (i.g.) or by has examined the chemoprevenivs activities of a number of intraperitonent injection (I.p.) with various doses of NNK different compounds against carcinogenesis by NNK, BaP, and/or BaP for 8 consecutive weeks. The mice were killed diethyleitrosamine and7.12-imethylhenziolanthracene (9,10). either 9 or 61 weeks later and tumors of the lung and We have used the A/J mouse o1 evaluate the effects of forestomach were counted. The ig. route of administration isothiocyanates against lung tumor induction by NNK proved to be more satisfactory than "d'1 administration, (4.11.12). Results obtained with the A/J mouse can be replicated because M avoided complications due to tumor formation at in other model systems For example, phenethyl lisothiocyanate thelnjection site and associated mortality. A dose-response (PEITC) le an effective inhibitor of lung tumor induction by relationship for lung tumor induction by i.g. administration NNK in both the A/J mouse and F344 ral (11,13). mice killed 9 or 61 weeks after completion of carcinogen the effects of single chemopreventive agents against single treatment. The highest total doses of NNK and BaP (a total carcinogens. This may not be realistic with respect 01 tobacco of te, jimol of cach) induced more lung tumors than would smoke, which contains at least 40 carcinogens (1), The have been expeeted extrapolation from the lower doses. compounds chosen for this study, NNK and BaP, are important when given 5q the ig. route: Lp. administrations of BaP assess the effeets of chemopreventive agents given either wcre complicated by local tumor formation and mortality. before or after treatment with the carcinogens NNK and BaP The most faserahle dosing regimen of NNK and BaP for We wanted to use multiple doses of carcinogens in order to evaluntion of chemopreventive agents appears to be a total simulate partially the multiple dosing which occurs during dose of 24 umol of each, administered in eight weekly smoking. In addition, the model should be relatively rapid and subdoses ig, with sacrifice 9 weeks after completion of inexpensive. Therefore. we examined tumor yields obtained dosing. This reginen induced 10.524.4 lung adenomas/ upon treatment with NNK and BaP, given simultaneously for mouse. A combination of benzyl isothiocyanate and phen- 8 weeks, followed by no treatment for an additional 9 or 61 ethyllsothiocyanate: given 2 h prior n each gavage of NNK weeks (see Figure 1). This tumor model was employed in a and BaP, was found to be an effective inhibitor of lung preliminary test of benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and PEITC tumor formation, reducing the tumor multiplicity to as inhibitors of lung tumorigenesis by NNK and BaP thls study provlde a conventent model for assessing the NNK was synthesized in the American Health Foundation Organic Synchesis efficacy of chemopreventive agents against Sunt cancer Faeility. Rts purity was established hy HPLC a >997. BaP (98% purity), Our goal ir this study was to develop a simple model which American Health Foundution Research Animal Facility (4). They were could be used to evaluate the effects of chemopreventive maintained on AIN-76A dint containing sa com oil, as previously 2 play a major role in the development of lung cancer in smo- into groups ef 15 as sammarized in Table 1. At age 7 weeks. each mouse was kers: djealgsdrasenal-dhpyaddeledunese (NNK*) treated by imtraperitoneal (ip.) injection or by intragastric gavage lig) with and benzolalpyrene (BaP) e NNK is b potent pulmonary the appropriate chemical la OI mi cononseed ol, NNK and BaP were bom carcinogen with organospeeificity for the lung in all rodent dissolved in the 0.1 ml uned for treatment Injections and gavages were caried *Abbreslationsr NNK. Trowena1atplegidesncongnfeneh? individuat dese was one-eighth of the total. Equimolar doses of NNK and BaP. benzololpyrene: PEITC, pheneihyl isathiocyanaic: BITC, benzyl Ba were uied le most of the combination sdnort because the amounts of
which these two tobacco smoke carcinogens were given
The A/J mouse lung tumor model has been used extensively
of NNK and BaP in combination was established in the that BaP was more tumorigenic to the lung than NNK
Most previous studies in the A/I mouse have examined We sought 01 develop a model which could be used to
Comparisons of
and BaP given individually showed representatives of the lung
in tobacco smoke
U
carcinogens
(1).
5.925.7 lung adenomas/mouse (P V 0.001) and completely induction by tobacco smoke carcinogens.
inbiblting forestomach tumor development. The results of Materials and methods
BITC (989 (Agand and PEITC (93% (und were obtained from the Aldrich Chemical Cempany (Malwaukee. Wt). Cottonseed oll was purchased from Female Al mice, age 5 wecks were obtained from The Jackson Labarntory (Bar Harbor. ME. Thay were housed under standard conditions in the The design ofthe bioassay is illustrated la Figure 1. The mice were dividede out for 8 conuecutive werks. The total doses qre given in Table L Each- NNK and total eareinogenie polycyelie hydrocarbons iin sobaceo smoke are
Sigma Chemical Co. (S1 Louis, MO).
Introduction e
agents against two of the carcinogens in tobacco smoke thought described (4).
a
isothiocyanare, in. Intrperitoncal, # introgastric gavage.
oosfora Unvenity Pres
2721
-
