; Epidemiot Vol 47, Na. I0, pp. 1143-1162, 194
Coparight o 1994 Ciseviar Science M
Priated is Great Britain AR right reacrved
0895-435694 $7.00 +0.00

Pergamon

0895-(35694081-6

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN SMOKERS, EX-SMOKERS
PASSIVE SMOKERS AND NON-SMOKERS
ALISON THORNTON, PETER LE* and JOIN FRY
d N. 3 Statistion and Computing Led, 17 Ceder Road, Sutton, Surrey SM2 SDA, England
(Received la reutsed form a March 1994)
Abstract- A extent to which current, ex. and passive smoking are associatod with
other risk factors, and the potential for confounding arising from these associations, was
studied using a representative sample of 9003 British adults. The distribution of 33
lifestyle (actors generally considered associated with adverse health were compared in
current smokers, ex-smokers, never smokers living with a smoker ("passive smokers")
and other never smokers. or the 33 risk factors 27 showed a significantly higher
prevalence in heavy smokers than in never smokers and only two showed a lower
prevalence. For many risk factors, prevalence increased with amount smoked, decreased
with time of smoking cessation and was increased .s passive smokers. The possible
magnitude of bias from confounding by the risk factors a. estimated. It is concluded that
confounding by multiple risk factors may be an important issue in smoking studies
where 1 associations are obscrved. This applies particularly to studies investigating
the possible association of passive smoking with various hcalth effects.
Smoking Passive smoking Confounding Bias

INTRODUCTION

gists normally do attempt to take account of

Numerous epidemiological studies have investi- such differences where relevant to the endpoint
gated the relationship of current smoking, past studied and thus 5 to minimize bias due to
smoking and exposure to environmental confounding Differences between non-smokers
tobacco smoke ("passive smoking") to mor- exposed and not exposed to environmental
tality and morbidity from a variety of diseases tobacco smoke are less well studied, though
11) Because smokers and passive smokers are recent reports (4,5] have pointed to a possible
not a random selection of the population, such confounding of the lung cancer relationship by
theoretical possibility that observed differences A study of the literature over many years by
between the groups studied may arise, at least in one of us (PL) has led to a number of pro-
part, due to differences in exposure from other visional conclusions being reached. Firstly.
risk factors and not wholly to effects of smoking smokers tend to have unhealthier lifestyles than
or of environmental tobacco smoke exposure. non-smokers in a number of respects, so that
Many differences between smokers and non- they would be expected to have higher rates of
smokers, such as in alcohol consumption puelzl many diseases even in the absence of any effect
social class [3). are well known and epidemiolo- ofsmoking. Secondly, for many ofthese lifestyle

studies have always to take into account the diet.

2
4
(
2
b
4
2

factors passive smokers are also somewhat
worse off than non-smokers unexposed to

*Author for correspondence

1143