Polluted Data
by SamuelS. Epstein The auhhr survevs the rerrr of industr--generated data Eualamg a nlem . shm 2 (mntramms un date- frem Khm wnbapru a baase merrpretation. ma mpulatam., suppressnm and : le outright de- Mtm HHI -are (mmmempla e esper ially when prohaalle ie hmloogrrs are mehed Alarmanhh. Mnh C iden r 1hw jusuhes strog reservations as 0I th salalt of ams data developed hs institunons uT indn alubb whun MEmmmm interess are dueih or Informatnen a she runem of a onumk and pulan al pmmr Benmmmmnaking at all leveh of gm- ermmem aunldmall the ay allanitty of a buds of H: lormatmnn, SHI the hun ol - hik h the relative merits el ahernar poln 9 an N I red and unsidered 1f thn mlln matim et data base is 3 nehed or inal- xl. then whaterr de BAHIS aTe tea hed Euus alsobe unpru u maalul, threatemng the faben ol demm The - 1 whr Imng talk dt all bencht and u daa. uN whn h n regulates des 1sions are based. uBm frem ihe mulunrr RS themehes bemg regultt- ed Ihre data are eithes generated and mter preted HHr and HnNIISER undes COBEE a te mndust 2 -An and spl 0n4 presures
mdlrrs th alle ted
AIA snd rument
à - - :
Buh inte this prees 1 asadre of innsulanss, miitures whunr duer uf apprn al pren ides the h idcnures of these consilaan are ofien hidden new
In m-lune M mmtte stall M In temmere u lalnta generall from presiguun umeruues or resrah In-lunve mwnntn sall ar 111 mmmune to EEH dara wnh an addmmaal manie ef authe itv Thr aml devhpmen and markemng departments. ans unh frem the publn bu alu from ther owi uni C mii les huns she produ a pII rw mtn 1MI MIE s insmrteen The muluraal mirress ef thew mrie Indurmal 1mm a a € mmull aw arded s ummuhants ate rshet mAM dilimdd to thr agene IEs ueh lr ommue - 3 lalon sutrrs and unn ruuee. E 1 hune adsm and rxrn cummitires thes SII wnlen 1 lus mg hus lern wol ned a the upen a a des ha 4 -11 usaal mamt. paur mi anbddenul smit I 1s 4 11E mmnuee to umpoken prrarr Camshamt 11 thr Girnraatut - Dete and BuS puenum mfee matmn et nttt pretmm the mest HEme prullem wnb mndurrall gen- mmmstn wahh wha are prtennd a the mtrtess el ertte daaa a a pmn malle Deeph -u emed In mhuun evn theug thr Inmed thr marleu. d dau sulumttedd in 1917 ter the petepun a met hkrh le refiet shet i m tahh Tinmd and Dag Admant atem (FDA) In indur Sumel N 1 . trl - * a waatrmal addr Homm ledrd addane petam a ggmal suhmmre le the
HE1
from teserr
mmsnr wsth ethn the
at a lew au hntet ir draw n frm the held al NA upurmmal and enmrmmmmall aas a
market, a pta IR . hardh wtommeenne aamaln the wImE ung
hhe la's lmw
Ihe - H tes ragri fm she : e futrr e than ke K E e ntrre ? and salurs lel 1 E a dee E et 2 Hleui wnrah - 1 Fewd and - Medmal - a Ann A 3 th sura l Pu Hu af p-hi dn Im l'e demmeeheg Ar 1att 1.
un sulden a kudl addane petitioms then (ammn simnr Helke Lnv mmplamed Almns hall a dhe Admmmtaate hav hern iE : pler i havr mal aleupate pareknn, sbe regula a the srfon hnv
- Dug furhe Hre sepassted
a
uhh repmed
