Val 285 No. 23
EDITORIALS
1317
The New England Journal of Medicine Officia! Organ of The Massachusetts Mtddiall Society the Nev ENGLAND JOuRNAL or MEDICINE AND SURGERY and continued in 1828 as Vol. of the BOSTON MEDICAL AND SURGICAL JOURNAL, PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE COMMITTEE ON PUSLICATIONS or THE MASSACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY Claude E. Welch, M.D. Chninean Joseph Garland, M.D., EDITOR EMERITUS Franz J. Ingelfinger. M.D., EDITOR ASSOCIATE EDITORS George S. Richardson. M.D., Boos REvIEWS Robert O'Lear,, ASSISTANT EDITOR EDITORIAL BOARD
ACTION ON ASBESTOS ASBESTOS workers are unintentional victims of industrial progress. They are at risk of pulmonary fibrosis, pleural calcification, mesothellomas and lung cancer. Asbestos exposure is now involving aor only air but also wine and beer.' Fibers have been found in the lungs of people without industrial asbestos ex- posure. Whatever the exact nature of asbestos or ferruginous bodies may be, there la no doubt that electron microscopy of the lungs of urban dwellers ease in the general population at this time, the presence of asbestos in their lungs is disturbing. Asbestos is relatively resistant to destruction by most chemical and physical means and can float freely in the atmosphere for prolonged periods. Asbestos discases have a long latent sweeping decisions on the control of asbestos must be made now, on the basis of "reasonable probabili- ty" rather than after a delay for a precise definition of dose-response relations. These thoughts are reinforced by the work of
Founded ie 1812 as
widespread, drinking water,
Alexander Marble. M.D. Samuel Proger, M.D.
Saul S. Radovsky, M.D. has shown the presence of chrysotile asbestos. Al- Leroy D. Vandam, M.D. though there is no evidence of asbestos-linked dis-
20 period,
Jane F. Desforges, M.D. Jan Koch-Weser, M.D.
Ronald A. Mait, M.D.
Arnold L. Smith, M.D, years or more. We therefore believe that more
Robert E. Johnson, M.D. Norman 2 Levinsky, M.D. Francis D, Moore, M.D. Charies A. Sanders, M.D, Jerome H. Shapiro, M.D Ronald A. Arky, M.D. Dana L. Farniworth, M.D.
John w. Litdefield, M.D. Murphy and associates in this issue of the Journal Arthur A. Sasahara, M.D, (p 1271). Their studies of pipe coverers involved in Louis Weinstein, M.D, new ship construction include better than usual John R. David, M.D. exposure data and indicate a high incidence of as- Edward A. Gaensler, M.D. pestosis (38 per cent after 20 years) at what have Brian MacMahon, M.D. been previously regarded as "safe" dust concentra-
Howard Bleich, M.D,
Isadore N, Rosenberg, M.D. Milton C. Paige, 4 BUSINESS MANAGER manuscript, including references, should
tions. A second study of Murphy et al. reports two cases of pleural disease (one mesothelioma) in workers who sanded asbestos florr tiles. Since the
AUTHORS preparing manuscripts for submission to the Jour degree of asbestos exposure was unknown, the au- und should consul: "information for Authors," This material thors simulated the working conditions and found may be found in the Frst issue of every volume of the Jour- conçentrations of 1.3 fbers per milliliter of room nel. or it may be obtained from the Joumial office. The entire air. This concentration is less than 1/5 of space, and all material, including figures, should spdd submit- used threshold limit values. A fbber per milliliter of CASz RePORTS, usualiy published in the "Medical Intelli- minute for eight hours inhales some 10 fbers every gence' section, should include only the pertinent details and work day. Although only a fraction of the inhaled
be
double
currently figures suggest that has called for control
ted in duplicate.
room air means that a worker breathing 15 liters per an alarming number will still accumulate over a 10- A recent Committee report prepared by a Nation- asbestos emissions at the source and for protec- The report also calls for further rescarch on the
reference to artices reporting closely related cases. A very fbers remains in the short case report or a description of a technie submicted as a "BRICY RECORDING" should be limited to 500 words, MATERLAL prinsed in the New England Journal of Medi- year period. cine is covered by copyright, The Journal does not hold itsef responsible for statements made by any contributor. NOTICES should received be day, 24 days before date of publication. dies published Requests should be sent to the author. imply endorsement by the Jourmal, Arbor, Michigan 48106. chusetts 02115.
these lung, panel
al Academy of Sciences
not later than noon on Mon- of
.
REPRINTS: The Jourmal does not stock reprints of the art-- tion of those who are exposed in their occupations. ALTHOCGH all advertising material accepted is expected to biologic effects and the physica! characteristics of conform to ethical medical standards, acceptance does not asbestos fberr;; such data are urgently needed "if a SUBSCRIFTION PRICES (worldwide): $15.00 per year (students, range of safe exposure is to be established with interns, residents $7.50 per year). Rates are :t U.S. fundsonly, confieence." Although we endorse these recommen- MICROVILSE volumes availabie to regular subscribers dations, we want to underline the urgent need for through University Microfimms, 315 N. First Street, Ann technical controls based on existing COMMUNICATIONS shouid be addressed to the New Eng- Epidemiologie monitoring, physical studies of as- land Journal of Medicine, 10 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massa- bestos and other fibers and analysis of their effects
knowledge.
on cells and tissues are important and must be con-
