RAP

MERICAN JOURNAL OF
Public
Health

Editorial
Volume 77, Number *
AMred I MD. MPH

May 1907 Established 1911

EDITOR Less Hazardous Smoking and the Pursult of Satisfaction
Cigarettes deliver drugs: al root smoking is drug taking Seventhe wurk has
confrmed nicotine as a powerfully reinforcing. psychoac tive drug For the consum-
ASSISTANT FDITOR er. then, urra low-yield cigareties raise, the simple issue uf druk cultan ur
I J I DYPH adulieration. The unsainfaccorinnss of ultra low yieldcigaretees a sen mnee 4 at ay
of customers for these products even in healt conse auus Calforrna As nuted 1g
Maron and Fortmann in this issue of the Journal, only - N Pr cent of Mmokr in -
EDITORIAL BOARD population based sample smuke cigareties in the ranggo6 o io mg nu 1 ad
Mary F 1 DPHH (1987) 2mg "tar Despte the publicay about discase nsks of smuking and the wadepre L
Chaiperron belief that uitra lor POH cigarettes are kes hazardous must smokers will nut Llalss
Doris 1 RN D-PH (1989 the sireet for these cigarettes, lei algne walk the advennsed mule
No doube smokers have roulinctyeedd ultra low yeN 4 garreues and au a
Joy o Dryloes MA (19 routinely have rejected ihem an unsainlying A mg 3 0 mg macuunn I I1
Manin s. Favero. no 1198 delivers I 80 per cent dilutigg air in cech euf 1 e by offiral mook an me une
Frederick C. Green MD 1198 Those smokers who karn the inchs of compensatory smuking are mure hkely lu
Mary Grce Kerar DPPH. MS 11988) persist in smoking these cigaretees than are those smukers whe Jo not ur sclup
satisfaciory compensation lec hniques For ultra low yxl ciparetess the main
smoking lec hniques are blu kung the deluting ar vents un hiters whh hip ur Anger
Kenneth a Rogers, MD MPH (98 taking larger pufls and, as Maron and Fortmann remud us. semply smok ung mur
Zena I MA MB 11989 cigarenes per day A smoker sell selecton beas icompensators reman nim
Ferundo I Trevine, PDD. MPH (1987) compensalors kave) may cause much of thr discouraging panirr kounn in and
Experimenuel Evddrne F Recent eapermmnts shuw . more enc ouraging PIS ture
I Devid Wry, MD, MPH (198 of what mught be ganne frum the wndespread us uf ultra low yicld Ra cir by
amokers who refuse to quit Burpous West. et et randomiy assigned 14 smuken lu
remain with their o-n brand (average -. 2 mccotne, 14
STAFT le switch te ue uhrra low yeeld brand 0 ms nIotee
Willam H. MeBesch, MD MPH amoking the witra low yield proup had plasma nicotine levels that werr unn au pr
Enerwtive DerctorrManngin Edire cent of the own brand poup ( 4 vs 22 & ng/mi carbon monos we le veis Jillered by
Adricane 3 mh 00 per seR uo - - 33 2 ppm) (Alhouuh nue nuted in thr Mrihud
Pabir renions Dreet explicaly instructed not to block biser VENIS IN west. Personal Cummunn anri
Deyne Bakky Simularly, in the expenmental component uf sher report, Benuwit et 1 fuund
Assistent Maneg F panial compensation in smukers whe were foredd le smoke vitra lum a 2 cIrer ae:
Marva Barne (Behavioral blux king of Aiier venus war not forbudden is thia Mudy. but 2 hare been
Edioriel A asisten discouraged by detarls of the procedure *
The combuned lesson of the cruss secional surveys and the forced -erls bing
Prdtr - i experments is ? if there is lo be ma iaal progress with the currens wyle ultra are
I Dobbs yickd caparete HS use Aedss lo be ene ouraged more fors cefully (ne of the ie u
Protr I Adpemaing Auutent smokers dun's put up -sth uhrr lue y-lls us that hugher yeel cigarene are enly an
easy purchave amay Imagine che date lover la e with en - rall 4 l un a
desen island sucha candy might seem treat but in well stu ked candy stere the 4 -
CONTRI BUTING EDITORS pseuloc hex olates would gaiher dust especially d they were rue
-. Annas. JD, MPH ihe more satislying hocolates.
cigarette manufacturers were requrrd lu i only E
1 Hrein Thre - New (guarding against more problemat fiter desgni".. thes cigaretee mughi he -
1 H. Tuhon. MD. DrPH greaier eflecs on eapesures to smoke toxins than they du an the wade upen muil 1 Jus
Neers I ahr Firke a drug conient of medxatiions iN Mniiyy regulated H should be Jrug vacif ot garene
Jesn I E smoke Many smukers would over smuke shes cupareness by break Bun ull bite a
I i blocking vent i and by smoking greater numbers per day And smme smu à

Irene H. Butier, n- (1987
Jean I MD MPH (19
Philip d Weiker, MD 1198))

Julisa A. Waller, MD 10061 reviewed in the curreni report

tar and 12 smuk :
tar - Over 10 Jays ul
en rre

Michele Hontn
Gexz 1 - ree 1
Barburs G Rosenk 1 PRD
5 M 1907, Vat 77 No

ceapp than
prrtiee

i

$39

2501662717