HKW2228112 SASTA BARBARA SAN14
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
4 - 2 ISPAKIMI 7 - aIRN January 3, 1977 Dr. Willian H. Fishman La Jolla Cancer Research rourdation 715 Kuir Lands Visto May La Jolla, CA 92037 Dear Dr. fishean: and Salk.
a
IA 1 M HINA -
We are 1ooking fonard to your active participation in the scientific activities of the La Jolia rescarch cocdunity. In particclar, the activities of the la Jolla Cancer Resezrch Founration and your studies on alkaline pnosphatase isoenzynes should fit in well with ongoing activities noi only at UCSD but also at Scripps The establisnrent of a focal center for rcsearch proorams on oncodevelopmental prublems is particularly irely. It will be o grat potential importance for pulling tcgetter work, by a number of laboratories directed toward isolation, character iztaion and doterrination of the sionificance of huran oncodevelopmeetaal antigens such as alphafeteprotein and carcinorsbryonic ant iuens. One of the goals of the work in our laboratory is to determine the relationship of increased serur concentrations of ArP to prenalignant lesions or carcinogen exposure in hunans. Our studies on rats and mouse model systers clearly derion- strate tnet anirals pasodka to hejatocarcinogens have elevated serum AFP concen- trations prior to developrant of mllionant tumrrs It is hoped that syster:tic study of husan scra from difforert sources vill determing if serum AFF concun- In addition. the role of env rumentaal factors such as hormonal influences on the production of encodevelopmenta gene prakit can be further explored in different sy:ters. Such data irplies tha! (he prod:ution of ohcooevelopmental gene products by turor ceils is net a fixed property of a given tumor but is Hr look fon:ard to working with yeu and the La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation in furthering research in the important subjert of oncudeveloprental gene
trations may be used to monitor hepatocarcinogen exposure.
subject to envirormental controls.
expression. Best regards, Stewart Sell, N.D. Professor SS/nb
