HKW2223022
Life Sciences Vol. 15. PP: 1291-1300 Printed in the : A.
Perganon Press
KITAROTIIS b BENZO (A)PTIINE BY KICROSONES FRON TIFFUIR or PRECOUANT AND FITAL HAMITENE Irene a Mang, Ronald R. Rasmunsen, and : Timothy Crocker Can - Rreearch Institute, University of California, E Franeieco, and Depart- -en of community ard mvironmental Medieine, University of California, Irvine". (Rereived in final form 26 August 1974 Sumaryy Pretreatment of hansters vith benzo (a)pyrene (BaP) grestly incressed 3 Sl vitre metabol ier of PAr by lung alerosonns fron progrant he stare, and 3 I effect on the metabolim of Bap E iiver miere- somee. The produetion of various metabolites of Bap by lung niere- sonos war increaned to different extenta: 3-hydrexy-na? (3-CH-BAP was ene of the najor natabolites the metabolic yielde of 9,10- dihydrodihytrory--ae (9,10-dio1) and 7,8-diel vere Incrensed more than thet of the 4,5-diel. In a I of 1iver nierosones, only the yielde of 9,10-diol and 7,8-diol vere incressed ovar the contrel levels, The presence of cyclohexene oxide in the incuba tion a eures decreaned the production of the diole. Basal-leval enryme activities in placental, fetal 1iver, and fetal akin mierosomes in metabolizine R vere very low, Pretrea trent of pregmant hanstere with RaP indaced Rap-ret tabolizing enzymes in fetal tierue 2 fold. Benso (alpyrnne (Da le . carcireser and environmental conta a nant that is found in coal tar, nineral otl, car exhaust, tohacco snoke, moked foode, etc. (1). In yitro stadiee shoved that netabolie activation of Bar ie required for Ste intaractio vith proteine and nuclele aeide (2,3) Rarller studies with : 1iver pr eparations 24,5) and harster 1iver micror - a (6,7) shoved that Bar le metahelised mainly 8 phenolie and dihydrodihyirony (diel) der 'BRaJIRAT. and to quinones which are ensymatie or air oxidation producte of enstable phenolie netabolitas (4,9 as vell as some untdentified more polar metabolites, The metabolien of Rat has generally been meamured da the production of 3-hydroxy- RaP (3-O--aaP) +ich je often one of the major metalol ites in aata (3). 3-0H- nap ie toric te mitured call (9), I it shovs very 11rtle interaction v th DIAA in vitro (6) 2 has not been shown to 3 carsinomenic. 8 the other hand, K-regton eporides ef related polyeyelie aronatie hylrocarlons (PAN)bnnd to cell-
1291
