Appeddi 1
SemINATS in CANCER "A901018 Vol 1, 1990 : pP 127-136
The role of cathepsin L in malignant transformation
Susan E. Kane and Michael M. Gottesman à
Procathepsin 7 is the major excreted protein of malignantly What is MEP: The first hint as to the idencification of transformed mouse fibroblasts and it is one of the major MEP came from studies in which MEP was shown to acid gystenne proteases in mammalian celis. The broad gen- be a glycoprotein containing mannose 6-phosphate.s aral protease activity of cathepsin L against a variety of Since mannose 6-phosphate is a lysosomal recogni- extracellular matrix proteins as well as other intracellular tion marker, it appeared that MEP was a Ivsosomal protein substrates, and its regulation -5 factors which stim- protein whose transcription was increased as the ulate growth, jsadnns that it contributes to the transformed result of growth stimulation. A search for hydrolytic phenotype. Possible functions in antigen processing, inva- activities associated wich purified MEP led 9 the dis- siveness, metastasis, and turnover of intracellular and covery that MEP was an acid protease inhibitable by secreted proteins involved in growth regulation have been leupeptin, which put it in the class of cysteine -oad Key words: Cathepsin L / growth factors / numor pro- resembled that of cathepsin L.10 However, published THE ASSOCIATION of cathepsin L with the process of weights of 21,000 Da and 5000 Da, whereas MEP was malignant transformation was first demonstrated in a 39,000 Da protein. This discrepancy was resolved 1978, when :: was found that malignandly trans- when the sequence of MEP CDNA was determined formed mouse fibroblasts secrete large amounts of a and its deduced amino acid sequence was compared 39,000 Da protein into their culture medium. This to the available partial protein sequence of cathepsin protein, termed MEP for major excreted protein, was a MEP was found 01 be the precursor to the lysoso- purified to homogeneity and rabbit antisera were mal form of cathepsin L. identical o the major cys- raised against the purified mouse protein. The ant-- teine protease of activated macrophagesi? and the sera were found to precipitate an intracelluiar -oud major ras-induced protein of transformed tein which was present in nontransformed celis and fibroblasts.1 For the remainder of this review, MEP synthesized at dramatically increased rates in trans- will be referred to as procathepsin L. be the result of elevated amounts of translatable MEP tied to growth stimulation in cultured cells? Does the mRNA,3 Later, after a CDNA for MEP was cloned, enzymology of cathepsin L. indicate anything about this high level of mRNA was demonstrated by nuclear its possible function in malignancy? Why is pro- run-off sAesse to be the result of increased transcrip cathepsin L secreted even though it carries lysosomal tion.5 PMA, a phorbol ester tumor promoter,s and a recognition markers? How is lt processed to yield variety of growth factors147 were shown to stimulate mature cathepsin L in lysosomes? How do oncogenes MEP synthesis and secretion, suggesting that MEP and growth factors regulate expression of procathep- was associated with the process of growth in cultured sin L mRNA? Does cathepsin L play a role in human
proposed.
teases. More detailed analysis of the proteolytic specificity of MEP on oxidized insulin B chain. a stan- dard protease substrate, showed that MEP activity data on cathepsin L suggested that the lysosomal form of this protease was a protein consisting of two polypeptide chains having approximate molecula:
moters / oncogenes / secreted proteases
formed cells.2 This increased synthesis was shown to
Why is the synthesis of procathepsin L so closely
fibroblasts.
cancer? This review will artempt to provide answers to
these questions.
From the Laboratory of Molecular Biology. Netional Cancer Institute, NIH, 9000 Rockoille Pikr, Building 37, Room 2E16, Bethesd,, MD 20892, USA *To whom reprmis requests should be addressed o 1990 6 W.B Saunders Company 1044-379X/90/0102-010455.0/00
Enzymology of cathepsin L
Cathepsin L. is a porent cssteine protease one of sev- eral acid proteases presumed to be invoived in the
127
