LOS ANGPIFS TI:S Los Angeles, California October 20, 1954 E been proved. lale
harel uudn the premise that hination n' a partirular type a neettnn hetween riea in each nf the three ratrgories rer smoking and disease 2 has alrcady produred a sale Might Take Six Months ene 1 is. so all can be made Dr. E. Cuyler Hammond. that way. 1fnot. the research who was in charge of the most Dr. Carrnce Cnok Lit:e. compiete statistica! study to rhairman of the scientifi ad- date, said tha: "some say we visnry bnard and seient fie di. tive evidence before develop- try Resrarch Committee. de- ing a safe cigarette. but no ies which he helieves would nne has said just what the de prndure some nf the Aefni fintiie es idence wmid be." iive eviderce' in weich Dr Hr sard he "took issue' with Hammond referred. In his 1alk in the Ameriran "We wiil tarkle
J1. S cigarette. scientifie re- search should prove which should fidd one, "since peo- ple like to smoke cigarettes." rector o the Toiarro Indus- seribed the nutlines nf stg-- Tackle Unknewns
Calls 'Sfle Cigarettes Reports Smoking and Cancer Link Is Overwhelming
Expert for
1niiversity atatistician should wait for
more defini
NEW YORK. Ort. 61 (LPI this virwnoint.
The rvidenre connecting cig- Cancre Society meeting. Dr eously manv of the unknowns simultan arette smoking with hoth Hammond said the relation- i this feld of tobacen use u lung cancer and heurt dis. ship nf rigarette smoking to relation to humun health. : ease is "ovrrw helming" and the heurt and the vascular said in announcing the ou!- something should be done at from the standpoint of public program. "We seek definitive once about developing "a safe health, than the relationship fidiings in an area where cigarette." H leading statisti- to lung cancer 1 program to murh suggestive work has cal scientist told the annual find a safe eigarette from bren done. The program nf meeting cf the American the viewpoint of the heart the bnard recngnizes tha: wr Tobacco Industrv Research tnhacen, there are varinus relationshrp hetween r rom. Committee anaounced some oftypes nf fiters, and there are mental factors, includine the details nf is seientiee re varinua teehn'ques > euring The most important
system was more important, line of the industrv's research migh: prove surcessful in xIx do not have today the experi- months, with kuck," he said menta! evidenee that 1 ner-
Cancer Society today. At the xame time the scien- tie advisory board of the srarch program % a ch is he thar
Outlines Described There are various types C tobaren, he Raid, and it may some fortuntors rom- 90T ANGELES EXAMINER los Ange les, California October 20, 1954
mit scientific enncl:iins rA. garding the and rFrrs raure smnkire and lune eancer prncect Fet up waz a dirre: uddy C eurrent lung cancer rase: J 10 medical centers 11 tee - - ed States and Canada,
It will Include numerous studies of humans, including emotional habits of smokers, as well as tests on animals. Only the main broad aspects of the research were disclosed today. The apecirio research grants, financed aq the TIRC, will be announced later.
HEALTHSTUDY ON TOBACCO YORK, Oct. 19. 5 < broad sbx point study seek Ing lnowwedge whether eigarets or other forms of tobacco cause lung cancer or other health haz. ards was announced today. It is the first announcement of a big research proxram headed A the sclentifle ad. visory board of the Tobacco In dustry Rese reh Committee
NEW
(TIRC).
COR TI 14062
