SYMPTOMS AND THE MICRO-ENVIRONMENT IN THE
SICK BUILDING SYNDROME: A PILOT STUDY 000598

M.J. Hodgson, M.D., M.P.H. P. Collopy, M.E., C.I.H.

ASHRAE and SOEH Member
ABSTRACT

et al. (1967) investigared the frequency of complaints in 43

In e cross-sectional investigation in one building. office buildings built over the last 50 years with a validated
complainss associared with the "sick building syndrome questionnaire. The symproms were more commoa .B baild
were measured on a linear analog scale questionnaire. ings where the ventilation system also provided cooling and
Ar the same time the micro-environment (environmental humidification. irrespective of the a of the buildings. A
characteristics 5 the breathing zone rather than area direct relationship berween the level of complaints and air
samples) & characurrized by measuring 'ammadun quality parameters was not described. Skov et al. (1987) ex-
relacive humidiry, respirable suspended perticulases, car. amined indoor air quality symptoms in 14 modern 1
bon dioride, noise level, lighaing intensiry, relacive a town halls and 1 older control buildings. A level of symp
midiry, and airflow. No relarionship a seen benveen i : related 0s . "Aeecing" factor (carpets, upbolsery
che degree of sympioms and age, educarion. or duration and horirontal surfaces) ad the "macro-moleculer compo
of employmeni at the building or time spent S she build- nent" of dust. They aiso demonstrated a relationship between
hr on a daily basis. Staristically, complaines were the number of houns spent photocopying and using carbonless
significandly more frequens among Supoous 3 Envi- copy paper and tbe level of complaints. Other studies have
rommenial characteristics associased 1 * increased demonstrated that ergonomic aspects (Stellman et al. 1985)
complaint levels in this group included decreased airflow and psychodynamic factors (Row'and et al. 1984) contribute
models, chere a an association berween respirable nu- cause of complaints in the sick building syndrome by I
pended particulases and the levels of boch mucous I suring symptoms and environmental exposures. Robertaon et
brane and rystemic complaints. Satisfaction wish she F (1985) were unable to demonstrate any measurable dif.
I envirorment e predicted by perceprion of dreft ferences is the concentrations of eavironmental pollutants
inaensiry a also associated 1 complaints. n strate a relationship berween rymptoms and both area
1 of dhe sick building syndrome should eramine ples measuring dust and . "macro-molecular" traction, -

,
E

velociry and increased levels of respirable suspended par- 9 indoor air quality complaints.

riculates and dry-bulb semperanure. In 1
did nor clearty contribuue Q she degrer of rympton
alshough regression models PIP suggest der compl
were nor independent of chermal parameters.

Several studies have attempted to identify the actual
berween rooms in a mechanically and a naturally veutileted
building. They studied the rooms with the I comp
I and used area samples. Skov et d (1987) & des
Area samples is buildings may not be representative of
the exposures is different points in I rooms. Physical
characteristics such as windows and partitions, computers,
and sbelving may infuence air currents. Radiam heat may

muliplee exposures simultaneously 2 1 prycho in area I
social meanures ot idensify predictors of complaints in

indoor spaces.
INTRODUCTION

Complaints sermed the E building syndrome" bave lead 0I uneven distribution of pollutants. Finalyy most -
led to numerous investigations in tbe last i5 I They are hutants resuk from point sources, os they will be diluted es
thought to occur primarily is newty constructed oticce 1 subject .n farther removed from the source. The micro 9
5 and, at least in the past, were thought to be due to vironment around desks and within cubicles may have very
inadequate ventilation (Melius et al. 1964). Neverthelen, . different exposure characteristics thao tbe macro-enviroo-
wide variety of causes have been identieed .n specife t ment of a building. In addition. all applied occupational and
inctuding inadequate temperature and relative I 8 environmental bealth rescarch that attempes oI relate dose o
trol. noise, lighting. vibration, volatile organic compounds beakh effects suflers from the problem that dose a generally
and formaldehyde. microorganisms, environmental sobecco mearured at several points in time and then extrapolated 8
smoke, pesticides. € entrainment of vehicie exhaost or allow developmemt of exposure classifications over decades
spent I contaminated air and boiler fumes. Bbers released € most heakt eflects are measured as a I 1 of
from duct linings and otfice machine offgases and odors these chronic exposures Where the variability of I
A proup of investigators trom Great Britain (Finnepan where the level of symptoms krm change not merely trom
et al. 1984) suggested that these complaints were related pri day os day but from hour to bour, 1 a strater most 3
(Robertson t al. 1985) : unable to identify diflerences in attempted to characterize sir-quality parameters in the micro
wet-bulb globe temperature. dry-bulb temperature (temper- environmeat and stt these characteristics 9 relacion o the
ature). relative humidiry. air velocity. formaldebyde. or por- level of individual complaints at a pven point .s i This
itive or nepative ons between several rooms i a building report presents results of a cross sectional investigation of a
with patural and a building with mechanical ventilation, problem building using a sell-administrred. linear i
where both 5 of rooms had high levels of complaints. Burge self-assessment questionnaire to record shon-term symptom
i I a Amnua Profemor of Mediane und ot lndustrial and Environmental Heakh Scencees at the Unrveruty of Pituburghh Schoot
of Medicine and Publc Heahh. a 3 a Director, Environmental Heakh and Salery, Camepe-Mellon Univeruty, Pittsburrh. A

(Kreiss and Hodpso 1984; Hodpson and Kreiss 1986).
marily Os mechanical ventilation The same proup of authors

results .n greater than the difference in average samples, and
No investigations in the peer-reviewed litersture have

31Sp