True-raise Questlons on the Chenistry and Psychophyslology. of Odor end Flavor 1. TI Sone nodern workers suggest that nccurate mensurenent of vibrationa! frequency (in the far infrared, for exemple) of an unknown odorant will permit prediction of its quallty and intensity. - No elenentel substance, not even halides or ozone hos any odor; Instead they react with the mucose forning new products which are smel lled; but T Sone odorants have steric or vibrationa propertles which force the conc luslon thet they are odor less whon they are not. Present evldence strongly suggests thet different parts of the ol factory receptor ares, Ilke the retina In the eye, are que Ilty-specific. H Odorants need not penetrate the mucous (liquid system) nor the receptor T No one yet has a fire clue as to the critical relation between the molecule and the receptor which permits en odor perception. T The greater the secretion rate of muco . - or selive, the hi gher their "Hd and both pH and tomperature influence the quality of sensation in the 111. - The ideat Instrumental detector would respond to odors in the seue quantitative range as does an en Ima or human subject. TF Such en Ideat detector hes not been developed. IV. L - I-aan observors with head In fixed position can by virtue of the two Indepondent nostrils easily discern stereo snoll effects, 1.e. they can tell whetier ne otorant is ot the right or left hand, auch es one uses his twe ears in locating the source of a sound, - For certain musk-like coepounds, forty molecules are sufficlent to trigger 4 humon offact ory response. Adeptation to one olfactory oue I1ty does not significant ly reduce sensitivity to any other dissiei ler quality, but does reduce sensi- fiiity to all sinllor quelities. - By employing a simiiarities nethod of compering qualities, one con now obtain Ident Ity and degrees of difference without recour se to trohle- vi. - Hunger lorers thresholds stightly to some food quaiit ies but not for - Ir is now possible to identify the Intensity and quality of a certain given stimull simply by expert examination of the electrophysioiogicel record taken from approprlate odoo or taste neur ons, T Electrical stimulation of taste in man yields only reports of "sour" and a "metallic" or "alkaline" quality. TF Direct electrical stimulation of the olfactory senso has nover yer beon successfully accospiished. VII, TF Although total anosela is rare In humans and ageusia even rarer, there is evidence that in analogy to color vision deficiences, some people are Insensitive to (only certein) qualities whi le having nornal sensitivity to others. TF Topical anesthetics appiled to the tongue sho that different quelities TF Certain endocrine disense entitles make = possible for sone people quite sensitively to "snell" such "odor less' sutstances es sucrose or sodium chloride and their sensitivity to both teste and odor can be reduced to normal by eanipuletion of endocrine levels. TF e onenopause wonen at the time of ovulation fInd certain odors extrene ly disegreeable while at other times In the menstrual cycle these sene odor
sore elements possess taste.
11,
sur face In order to be see led.
chenica! senses.
v.
sone words. others.
of taste di: sappear e different rates.
they wil Judge quite pleasant.
ovi
