WACO, TEXAS
NEWS-TRIBUNE
D. 25,605
S 49,326
WACO METROPOLITAN AREA
MAR 9 1963

F.C Oversteps Authority
In Zeal to Guard-. Whom?
Congress may, and should, prevent the Federal
Communications Commission fron going through with
its proposed ban on radio and television cigarette
So long as cigareties are legal merchandise, it
does not scem right or logical that ono medium of
advertising be forbidden the producer A hilc
newspapers, magazines, billboards and ou ntcr
displays are allowed to continue hawking the product.
Congress is expected to review the FCC propnsal
and to look again at the federal Jaw, which expires
Juno 1, that requires cigarette packages carry the
warning: "Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be
The FCC said 1: is proposing to refuse Jicenses
03 broadcasters who carry cigarette advertising
because of evidence that smoking is injurious to health
and the FCC has an obligation to protect the public
intercst. This is nibbling at onc corner of an issue
that is bigger than the FCC and may be bigger
than the Congress: the right of individuals to do
as they please 50 long as thcy doa't harm another.
it also is a good example of the misguided philosophy
that if nok don't mention something. maybe it won't
Congressman Paul Rogers, Florida Democrat, and
chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com-
merce Committcc, snid in reference to the proposed
FCC rulc that the ngency had overstepped the bounds
of its authority. le said he doubts that FCC has
any right 01 tell an advertiser what he could not
say in Jis advertisements. Rogers said Congress will
take a close Icok at the whole question of regulations
on television and radio advertising content, not only
as to the Federal Communications Commissioon but
in regard to Federal Trade Commissioo praclices as
Thee stakes involved extend beyond the busincss
of broadcasling. They go to the heart of whe:her
government bureaus should be allowed to go beyond

advertising.

Hazardous to Your Health."

hurt you and will disappear.

well.
3

tho limits of due proccsa and the law,