44
s/u/P8
IHT
Taiwan Smolders Over Marlboro Man
By Susan Chira New York Timer Semie
wan bought 5.1 billion American- American cigarette promotion about 80 New Taiwan dollars . made cigarettes last year, ringing became an issue even in recent pack ($2.86) compared with 22
TAIPEI I The Mariboro cow up sales of $119 million. ln "9861 trade : between the United New Taiwan dollari (79 cents)for - boy in his white hat, cigarette dan- sales totaled just $4.4 million. For- Suates and Taiwan. Wang Chien- pack of Taiwan-made cigarettes. ghng from his mouth, has come to eign cigarettes now hold nearly 81 shieng. Taiwan's deputy minister of The limits on cigaretee advertis town. His picture adoms kiosks perceni of the market, with Ameri- economic affairs, régistered R ing Ss Japan are more liberal. Com- This frenetic, fast-growing oa- cigaretie exports last year, primari- teachers told me that junior high lrwed 5 the United Suttes in 1971. tioe of nearly 20 million people A because both Tawaa and Japan school students I 12, i3 years old Cigarette packages sold in Japan To introduce their unfamiliar Asia rose 76 percent last year. re- Adnooo joy . $16 billion trade surplus with thao the health- -warning labels brinds to Taiwan, American man- sulting in $i billion in new sales. the United States. But those people mandated in the United States. Waccurers have essentially intro la Japan, which has . population are just like robbers. If you are A Tbe 'oompanies may Amencan
and dod-pur-uonu stores through- can cigarettes accounting for 15 strong protest. guitar-playing. pep-surar promot- Indeed, Asian sales accounted
panies can advertise on TY after
OuI this city, next to posters o - peroeni. of Winston cigarettes. moked 34 billion year - and for the cegrrtttnn time, - rubstantial number of them were lamsoo made 9 America, not Taiwan. all Americannmadee cigarettes to paonp cigarette advertising to the smoke 300 billion ialand, and tbat has created a furor. Government officials bave accused imports have more than tripled tbe American ing teen-agers 01 unke dn moking. more than 10 percent last boly deay. operation that had monopolized peroent by 1992. pressure from W ashington. In the alcobol. 8 cigarettes were dropped. sales said Jaw sfacturers at . time wben sales in laws :" way up.
"They amusement places t0 3:50 P.M. and are now conducting out cigarettes and gifts," an aggressive campaign Television
er
for
sral
most of the growth in American &s said recently. "Many school- advertising of cigarettes was out- last dropped long-standing restrictions. - are DOw smoking How can # and Taiwan must carry label that, 8 the Brown & Wil- rette companies promote cigareties roughly transiated, says, "For the
Corp. exporta of like that? It's of 120 million and where people a cigarettes year. ir that. American uhe past year. The market share & :
have O.K. 6 them
saké o health, doa't smoke t0o the whole markets. We en- much" - . warning much milder "uru L human being, you wod't do cigarettes are selling well in Taiwan not RO mucb because of the adver- tising as because they are of better there is any- quality and taste better. American thing Suoin with oAap way thry are cigaretses are made of blended to- wancse cigarettos,
Acmrdintdoondd
cigarette manufactur- Tbey are not allowed 9 advertise 9 small stores where cigarettes are tions. Cigarette manulacturers may dom exooods 200,000. Beorr last year, foreign € girls oent of tbe market. Taiwan
companies of entic American cigarettes increased to 3 vigorously - The goveramec--ddministeee dicts that it could grow lo 15 0 20 sales pitch.
. charge X American companies from 3 percent 5" 1986, the promoting their products and s bacco and have less whicb tar than Tai-
are not
Department of Agriculture -odd ihry have no pians to change tber blended. American pressure 55 open their have they pusbed 3 do s0, they say.
5 cigarette market bad not adver- Taiwan officials tbey resent fo television or in newapapers. Nor The government agreed to allow markets to products that endanger Tbey can advertise only through otbers into tbe business oaly under people's health, like cigarettes and posiers hung near cigarette racks or year since stiff restrictions oc for. "This really burts our feclinga, kold, R well as through promo- A American cigarettes ET Taiwan R.. bbe United Shau-kong Suses docs legisiator. not en- aiso place 120 E . year in mag: have soared, generating much- courage its people to amoke, why zines, cach of whoec droulation sel- and tbe number of anti-smmking caus of American ada. They bire rettos accounred for less than 1 According to U.S. Depart- arettes free in nightclubs. k's 3 cigarettes, banned imports at mbat ol Agriculture, people B. Tai- difficult for Sunok boys to resist, 70,000 retail oudets licenaed to sell
tised, altbough it does now,
a
peadod growth for American man- export to Taiwan? Younger the Unitod States are way down and females are smoking .
rorree po--0o0-66
young attractive immoral. .
ge fori
the
wearing short skirts 8. pive + dit posed strict quotas 8 and then it becomes a babit. I''s cigarettes and imposed sti tariffs.
Aia rerult imporied ciparetiee cost
