BOULDER DAILY CAMERA Nov. 27, 1994
a
Area stores
stung
for cigarette sales
By MARK BABIONE For the Deily Camera nors. kids. ka:
referring to the Increased enforce- were issued a summons- penalyy Tur selling tobacco to. a m pous to ail__nng cigarelles. The
ment.
Boulder police stung 11 busi- Store clerks unlucky enougb.to down on selling cigarettes 01 mi- Duddddann appoar "t court. The maximum The sting. conducted on the eve -orrs I 00zS. fine of the American Cancer Soclety's -hho Supa involved two tcams. Great American Smokcout. was in- Each included u uniformed 'omcer. tended to educate clerks that it's il- a plain clothes ooccrr. and two legal to sell tobacco products to Fairviow High Schoolgiris, who Police targeted gas stations, con: girls" parenis signed a waiver al- vénience, drug, grocery. and dis- lowing them to take part u thc.op: "lww has neverBeen enforced, said The Juvenlles waro told not to "Bulderr Policc Officer Mary Man- plead with, or beg the clerk to sell "We're letting the stores know had S show identification.
nesses chis week during a crack.
"couri swres. Until recently, the eratlon. this ic going to happen, ehc said,
the cigarettes. and, If asked, they (See DOULDER, Page 3C)
Boulder police sting stores ' for cigarette sales to minors At the Conoco station, 3000 2020 Broadway, began 01 cry 28uh SL, one of the girts asked when she was islled - um the cashier for a pack of Mart ous"suuur gaid obe was a stu- boro Lights. oficrr Rob Hauke- dent and couldntt pioge me ness, In plain clothes, po01s "L court costs. HAukeness poun to "iin "ehinn her to witnese thc 9108U02 Ter, saying she could: A placard near the cash regis- the Distriet Attorney to do com - ter read, P.I ID my own mother. munity ecrvice instrad_of paying clerk asked tn sèe some identif- The clerks, not the store OWn- cation. Thc buyer produced lirr ers or manugers, have to pay the she wAs only 17. Tho clerk look- "We don'l du it to usiund cd at the license, sct it down on stores or clerks, she said. "Al-: the counter, and sold her the though, when you scc clerks cry: Afler they left, Haukeness Roulder Police targcted 15: up and identified him otoros and cler 2 al ail bur four "When I see them ask for an year. Tha Arst sting, conducted. stine E I think they're going to re- 5t September, targeted 16 stores: fuce the cale,' Haukeness sald. und ST clerks received Rum::
(From Page (OT
The clerk at Colony Market,
transaction.
prububly work out a deal-with
No ID, No Sale, No Way." The the Ane, driver's license, which showed court costs.
cigarettes. stepped summons.
ing, you might think otherwise. * received summonses. punass tobacco sale monses.
a3 a police officer. Manka came In and wrote the clerk a Thic wock's "But they never do."
operation was the. this :
