4458

Peptide Hormones. Growth Factors. and
Soma H (ed): Placenta: Basic Research for Clinical Applicaton.
Int. Conf. on Placenia. Tokyo. "0661 Basel. Karger. "1661 pp 105-114
Isolation of a Xenobiotic Metabolizing
Cytochrome P-450 (P-45050x) with
No Aromatase Activity from Placental
Microsomes of Both Cigarette-Smoking and
Yoshio Osawa, Tadayoshi Higashiyama. Kenji Shimizu'.
Endocrine Biochemistry Deparment. Medical Foundauion of
Buffalo Research Iosutute. Bufaaoo. N.Y. USA

Placental Proteins

Nonsmoking Mothers
Nobutaka Yoshida'

COPY

FILE

The presence of different monooxygenase activities has been docu-
mented in buman placental microsomes. The predominating cytochrome P-
450, that of androgen aromatase, catalyzes the biosynthesis of estrogens (1).
Aromatase P-450 bas been tbe object of numerous studies to determine its
mechanism of action and to purify it (2, 3). Gough et al. [4) repored the
presence of another enzyme system which catalyzes the hydroxylation of
xenobiotic substances. It bas also been reported that a placental cytochrome
P-450 is responsible for the hydroxylation of benzo(a)pyrene via aryl hydro-
carbon hydroxylase [5-7). The low content of the responding cytochrome p.
450 in human placenta and instability during purification have made it
dificuut to isolate any other active P-450 enzyme. As a side beneft gained
from our procedure to purify and characterize catalytically active aromatase
P-450 (3), we found a fraction from the immunoaffinity chromatography
which showed a high level of xenobiotic activity with little contaminating
aromatase activity. Through the use of conventional purification procedures,
we obtained a xenobiotically active P-450 with no aromatase activity.
Previous studies on aryl hydrocarbon bydroxylase activity have demon-
strated higher levels ofthis activity in smokers but not in nonsmokers (8, 9).
Postdoctoral Researcb Fellows OD leave from tbe Department of Obsteincs and

Gynecology. Okayama Univeraty Medical Scnool. Okayams. Japan.

PUBLICATIONS

028242