CAR all

CELL REGULATION, Vol. 2, 373-381, May 1991

Activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors
inhibits cell cycle progression of small cell

lung carcinoma

Carol L. Williams and Vanda A. Lennon
Departments of Laboratory Medicine
and Pathoiogy, Immunology, and Neurology
Mayo Clinic and Foundation
Rochester, Minnesota 55905

model for studying the dysregulation of cell cy-
cle progression. This highly metastatic tumor
accounts for 25-30% of all lung cancers and
causes >25 000 deaths annually in the United
States (Birrer and Minna, 1989). SCLC cells ex-
press receptors for several autocrine growth
factors, including gastrin-releasing peptide
(GRP, homologous to amphibian bombesin)
(Cuttitta et al., 1985; Carney et al., 1987), insulin-
like growth factor-I (IGF-1)(Macauly et al., 1988;
Nakanishi et al., 1988b), and a transferrin-like
molecule (Nakanishi et al., 1988a; Vostrejs et
al., 1988). Activation of these receptors gen-
gers, which must converge on a common point
to induce SCLC proliferation.
In addition to receptors for
factors, some SCLC cell lines express musca-
1985; Williams and Lennon, 1990a) and nicotinic
acetylcholine receptors (Maneckjee and Minna,
1990). The ability of acetylcholine receptors to
regulate cell proliferation has recently been
al., 1989; Maneckjee and Minna, 1990). Based
on our finding that activation of M, muscarinic
acetylcholine receptors (mAChR) causes hy-
drolysis of phosphoinositides (PI) and inhibits
voltage-gated 3 channel activity in SCLC
cells, we proposed that mACHR activation may
affect SCLC proliferation WWillaams and Lennon,
1990a). We report here that mAChR activation
inhibits DNA synthesis induced by serum, bom-
besin, insulin, or IGF-I in SCLC cells. mACHR
agonists arrest SCLC cells in both S and G,/M
pears to disrupt a common event induced by
transduction by growth factor receptors.
mACHR activation decreases DNA synthesis
cells cultured in serum (Figure 1). This inhibition

We prevlously reported that activation of musca-
rinic acetylcholine receptors (mACHR) of M, subtype
causes hydrolysis of phosphoinositides and inhibits
voltage-gated 3 channel activity 5 small cell lung
carcinome (SCLC) cells. We now report that mACHR
activation ceuses exponentially growing SCLC cells
concomitant with a decrease In DNA synthesis. Cell
cycle progression and DNA synthesis resume when
down-regulated. In serum-starved
SCLC cells, mACHR activation inhibits DNA synthe-
like growth factor-1. The finding that DNA synthesis
is inhibited even when mACHR are activated after
exposure of cells to growth factors indicates that
decreased signal transduction by growth factor re-
growth inhibition, Our data suggest that mACHR
activation disrupts a common event that ie induced
by different growth factors and is fundamental for
In normal cells, the transition from proliferation
to terminal differentiation is marked by with-
drawal from the cell cycle and an inability to
reenter the cycle in response to growth factors.
tion, but constitutively remain in the cell cycle;
rupted (Heldin and Westermark, 1984; Wein-
stein, 1987; Kraus et al., 1988). Small cell lung
carcinoma (SCLC) provides a clinically relevant
Abbreviations: GRP, gastrin-releasing peptide; ICs half-
factor-l; mACHR, muscarinic acetylcholine receptors; PBS,
phosphate- buffered saline; PI, phosphoinositides: SCLC.
e 1991 by The American Society for Cell Biology

to arrest in S and G,/M phases of the cell cycle, erates different intracellular second messen-
sis Induced by serum, bombesin, insulin, or insulin- rinic (Sorenson et al., 1983; Cunningham et al.,
ceptors is not the mechanism of mACHR-mediated recognized (Conklin et al., 1988; Ashkenazi et

are
mACHR

peptide growth

cell cycle progression.
Introduction

Transformed cells do not undergo this transi- phases of the cell cycle. mACHR activation ap-
the regulation of cell cycle progression is dis- different growth factors, which follows signal

Resuits

maximal inhibitory concentration; IGF-I, insulin-like growth by cells growing exponentially in serum

Carbachol decreases

"H-thymidine uptake by

small cell lung carcinoma.

373